Filter by topic and date
------------------------

IETF Anti-Harassment Policy
===========================

3 Nov 2013

IETF meetings, virtual meetings, and mailing lists are intended for professional collaboration and networking.

The IETF strives to create and maintain an environment in which people of many different backgrounds are treated with dignity, decency, and respect. Those who participate in the IETF are expected to behave according to professional standards and demonstrate appropriate workplace behavior.

IETF participants must not engage in harassment while at IETF meetings, virtual meetings, social events, or on mailing lists. Harassment is unwelcome hostile or intimidating behavior—in particular, speech or behavior that is sexually aggressive or intimidates based on attributes such as race, gender, religion, age, color, national origin, ancestry, disability, sexual orientation, or gender identity. Harassment of this sort will not be tolerated in the IETF. Examples of harassment include the use of offensive language or sexual imagery in public presentations and displays, degrading verbal comments, deliberate intimidation, stalking, harassing photography or recording, inappropriate physical contact, and unwelcome sexual attention.

Participants asked to stop any harassing behavior must comply immediately.

If you believe you have been harassed, notice that someone else is being harassed, or have any other concerns, you are encouraged to raise your concern in confidence with one of the [Ombudspersons](/contact/ombudsteam/).

The IETF commits that each such case will be considered and that concrete actions will be taken as appropriate, up to and including exclusion from all IETF activities.

