 
Appeal to the IAB of IESG rejection of Appeal to Last Call
 draft-ietf-grow-anycast


Appeal of DNSOP WG Decision of September 13, 2008

















**Legal Disclaimer:** In places this document refers to
 legal obligations and demands on certain organizations and individuals. It
 should be noted that this document is not submitted as a complete or final description
 of any legal demands that might be made by Anderson or Av8 Internet or others,
 but is submitted only for due process consideration by superior
 management. No limitation on rights is
 accepted nor are any specific legal theories offered. These references are to
 be taken only as preliminary notices of infringements and preliminary demands
 to cease and desist, according to our prudent duties to make such notices and
 demands known.

















**Summary of Issues for the IESG**







In the Articles included, a number of
 issues are raised involving:







1. Errors
 in decision of DNSOP WG consensus call on WG document titled
 draft-ietf-dnsop-reflectors-are-evil-06.txt.
2. Untruthful
 statements in WG Report to the IESG.
3. Unlawful
 interference in right to democratic participation in ISOC activity.


 


We ask the IESG to reverse the errors, disavow and repudiate
 the false statements and false reports, and discipline the WG chairs for
 breaches of duties and bad faith.







Table of Contents
-----------------









[Table of Contents. 

1](#_Toc214384995)




[Article I. Errors
 in Last Call.. 

3](#_Toc214384996)




[Section 1.01 Questions of Fact or
 Questions of Power. 

4](#_Toc214384997)




[Section 1.02 Known Technical
 Omissions. 

5](#_Toc214384998)




[Section 1.03 Opposition to the
 Document.. 

6](#_Toc214384999)




[Section 1.04 Improper Interference
 by Area Director Bonica.. 

6](#_Toc214385000)




[Article II. INACCURATE
 Statements in Consensus Report to IESG.. 

7](#_Toc214385001)




[Section 2.01 First Inaccurate
 Statement on BCP38 Sufficiciency.. 

7](#_Toc214385002)




[Section 2.02 Second inaccurate
 statement: Sufficiency of Response after Attack.. 

8](#_Toc214385003)




[Section 2.03 Third untruthful
 statement: Nobody expressed opposition.. 

8](#_Toc214385004)




[Article III. Unlawful
 interference in right to democratic participation in ISOC activity. 

9](#_Toc214385005)




[Section 3.01 Hobbs Act Allegations. 

10](#_Toc214385006)




[(a) First Allegation Against David
 Kessens. 

10](#_Toc214385007)




[(b) Second Allegation Against Peter
 Koch. 

11](#_Toc214385008)




[Section 3.02 Allegation of RICO
 Violation.. 

12](#_Toc214385009)





















**Background of Dispute**







According to a paper released by Professor Randal Vaughn (Baylor) and Gadi Evron (formerly of
 Affilias, NANOG member), the first noticed DNS reflection attack occurred in
 October 2005. Vaughn and Evron report
 that Dan Kaminsky and Mike Schiffman announced they had found 580,000 open
 recursors at the January 2006 SchmooCon hacker conference. Vaughn and Evron describe the means of
 attack as most likely involving a “botnet”, 







The attacker adds the IP address of the target as the
 request initiator’s IP address in this packet, and then repeatedly sends these
 queries to their established list of name servers, most likely by the use of a
 Botnet.







Vaughn and Evron describe the first attack that took place
 in October 2005:







Never-the-less, for the first 28 servers participating in
 this attack only 14 currently respond as supporting recursion. Again this is
 consistent with the attacker’s not fully gathering intelligence about the
 exploited servers prior to carrying out this attack.







Obviously, if half the servers aren’t open recursors, then
 the attack isn’t merely an OPEN RECURSOR attack. The explanation that this discrepancy is somehow consistent with
 the attacker not fully gathering intelligence is preposterous, since the
 servers, both open and closed, obviously responded to the attacker. The
 property of a recursive DNS server (recursor) being open or closed recursors is
 plainly not important to the attackers who exploit DNS servers with a Botnet. 







On Febuary 24th, 2006 Paul Estes reports a “DNS
 deluge” of requests for a certain domain name to the NANOG list.







On May 17th, 2006 Joao Damas and Frederico A. C. Neves introduced a document
 known as “draft-ietf-dnsop-reflectors-are-evil-00.txt” for consideration by the
 DNSOP Working Group. Joao Damas is an
 employee of Internet Systems Consortium, Inc and a NANOG member. Frederico
 Neves is employed by ‘NIC.br / Registro.br’, and a NANOG member. 



```


```

From the beginning, the draft was contentious. On October 26th 2006, Peter Koch
 issued the first Working Group Last Call.
 Strong opposition was registered on October 30th 2006 by Dean
 Anderson:



```


```

During 2 sessions of discussion, the authors made
 assertions for which there is no basis in fact. In the second session, the authors and proponents simply repeated
 claims discredited in May, as though those arguments had no prior opposition whatsoever.
 They just repeated a mantra, as if repeating it often and ignoring the contrary
 evidence somehow makes the mantra true.







Documents published by the ISOC should be based on facts,
 not on disputed, unsupported, even illogical assertions, and should be as
 accurate as possible. High standards of fidelity are required. This document
 does not meet such standards. Documents should also have a high degree of community
 interest, which hasn't been seen for this document. Many of the messages and
 most of the support has been from persons closely associated with the authors.







Controversy ensued, and there was no consensus. There was
 little comment after November 2006 until a Last Call was issued on September 11th,
 2007. Again a flurry of heated
 discussion and dissent went on until December 2007. There was no consensus to publish the document at this time, yet
 amazingly, according to the ID Tracker, on September 25th, 2007, Ron
 Bonica changed the state of the document as though there was a consensus. **This fact was not reported to the Working
 Group**. There was no comment
 whatsoever between December 2007 and September 2008. Then on September 1, 2008 a new draft was issued, hardly
 different from the previous draft. Again, controversy erupted; again the same already discredited,
 unsubstantiated rhetoric was repeated as fact. **Proponents presented no new
 facts which might address previous objections**. The only new fact was that
 there were **no reports of serious attacks since 2006**, a fact that tends
 to discredit the premise that the draft serves a useful purpose. On September 6th, 2008 Peter Koch
 suddenly announced that the draft was in “IESG Evaluation State”. A review of the ID tracker page shows that
 this state was entered almost a YEAR before, on September 27th,
 2007. Apparently this even caught Koch
 by surprise. That state shouldn’t happen before a working group consensus is
 reached. Dean Anderson objected to this
 submarine process on September 8th, 2008







. 







Errors in Last Call
===================







This article is brought under RFC
 2026 § 6.5.1 and RFC § 6.5.2, and describes several improper activities:







1. Incorrect
 technical choice [RFC 2026 § 6.5.1]
2. Objections
 not heard [RFC 2026 § 6.5.1]
3. Pre-requisite
 for consensus not met [RFC 2026 § 6.5.2]







§6.5.1 Working Group Disputes:


“(a) his or her own views have not been adequately
 considered by the Working Group (b) the Working Group has made an incorrect
 technical choice which places the quality and/or integrity of the Working
 Group’s product(s) in significant jeopardy.”







§6.5.2 Process Failures:


“[…] it is the IESG is charged with ensuring that
 the required procedures have been followed, and that any necessary
 prerequisites to a standards action have been met”







Questions of Fact or Questions of Power
---------------------------------------







At a recent talk at Harvard University, Al Gore, quoting
 Theodore Adorno said


“science is often met with opposition from leaders
 who want to turn “questions of fact” into “questions of power,”. 


“Questions of fact should be questions to be
 explored,” he said. “They should not be waylaid on their way to the public
 forum.” 


A significant part of the dispute on this draft involves questions of fact. 







The ISOC and the ISOC IETF Activity is chartered to be a
 scientific organization. As such, its principle interest is in questions of
 fact. The draft is based on a number
 of assertions no credible evidence or no evidence at all.







Are there serious DNS reflection attacks? Danny McPherson responded that there were,
 but that he couldn’t identify any. It is noted that the report published by
 McPherson’s company, Arbor Networks on November 11th, 2008 did
 asserted that there were DNS amplification attacks, but did not provide any
 information that might confirm or substantiate these claims. The report did not distinguish abuse from
 open recursors from abuse from closed recursors. McPherson’s company sells security software and services and
 stands to benefit from business opportunities substantially enhanced by this
 document by selling security products and services to companies that now feel
 the need to alter their DNS recursors. 







Do open reflectors such as those operated by many ISPs and
 customized DNS service providers such as OpenDNS really pose a threat to the
 Internet? No evidence was given that
 this fact might be true.







Will closing open recursors eliminate the potential for
 abuse? Any protocol or network service
 is subject to some abuse. The benefit
 of having network services must plainly outweigh the potential for abuse. The attack vector described as the premise
 is already addressed by BCP38. Analysis
 of the first attack by Professor Vaughn shows that botnets can abuse closed
 recursors. Anderson pointed out that
 greater harm can be obtained by abusing DNSSEC authority servers. No evidence was shown that, on balance,
 would justify the extreme act of having the IETF recommend closure of such
 services. 







Much of the dispute raised by Anderson comes down to
 questions of fact. On September 8th,
 Area Director Ron Bonica made approval a foregone conclusion (unknown to the
 working group, it was). A.D. Bonica states (emphasis added)







On the surface, I deem your objection to be without
 merit. **Unless you can convince me otherwise, I will send**


**draft-ietf-dnsop-reflectors-are-evil to the RFC editor
 for publication** on Friday, September 5. See below for point by point
 responses.







The foregone conclusion by Bonica is an improper
 interference in the democratic process of the Working Group.







In the same message, A.D. Bonica states the truth of these
 reasonable questions of fact are irrelevant:







- that there have only been two attacks


- that these attacks were contrived


- that the organization reporting these attacks is not
 credible


- that the organization reporting these attacks has not
 satisfied your requests for evidence


- that there are easier ways to attack DNS







The truth of these facts are relevant questions of fact that
 affect the integrity of the working group product. if the working group doesn’t
 try to get beyond rhetoric to find the technical facts. 







Such foregone conclusions in the absence of facts, or in
 this case, the willful repudiation of critical analysis of factual claims,
 cannot be fair or open. Rather, they are closed and opaque, as no one knows why
 the draft was approved, and most probably didn’t know when the draft was
 approved. 












Known Technical Omissions
-------------------------







There are a number of technical omissions in the draft:







1. The
 draft implicitly asserts that commercial services like OpenDNS ([www.opendns.com](http://www.opendns.com/)) which offer open
 reflector services are somehow harmful and should be closed. The draft does not address legitimate
 commercial services.







2. The
 draft does not address the fact that a botnet would also have access to
 the infected hosts’ recursors. It
 does not matter if these recursors are open or closed. As the paper by Gadi Evron noted, half
 the servers responding in the first event were closed recursors. Closing open recursors would not have
 any effect on a typical botnet. It
 is probably reasonable to expect that a 100,000 host botnet might have
 access to a large number of recursors. Closing recursors will have no
 effect.







3. The
 draft does not address the impact of closed recursors on reflection
 attacks.







4. The
 Working Group did not adequately consider whether closing open recursors
 would have any effect. Instead, it took as a foregone conclusion that
 closing open recursors would solve the problem.







5. The
 Working Group treated completely unsubstantiated information as being
 beyond dispute.








Opposition to the Document
--------------------------







Opposition to the Last Calls of October 2006 and September
 2007 is too numerous to list here. However, during the (apparently) sham Last Call of September 2008, two
 people expressed opposition:







1. Kevin
 Darcy opposed this draft in a message to DNSOP posted September 9th,
 2008.
2. Dean
 Anderson opposed this draft and stated that he would appeal the document.
 This fact is supposed to be reported to the Area Director and the IESG.







More will be said about this in
 Article II












Improper Interference by Area Director Bonica
---------------------------------------------







On Tuesday,
 September 9th, 2008 Area Director Bonica states that he will let the
 group come to a consensus, and will “keep quiet” until Friday, when the
 consensus will be reported. About 23 hours after promising not to
 interfere, A.D. Bonica again begins to interfere. However this promise is a sham. On the
 previous day, September 8th,
 2008 several IESG members updated their ballot positions; Area Director Bonica
 would have participated in these discussions and received notices, yet
 continued to deceive the Working Group that there was Working Group Last Call
 process going on. These activities are contrary to IETF process and so IETF
 procedures were not being followed. 

















INACCURATE Statements in
 Consensus Report to IESG
==================================================












This article is brought under RFC
 2026 § 6.5.1 and RFC § 6.5.2, and describes several improper activities:







1. Incorrect
 technical choice [RFC 2026 § 6.5.1] A choice based on false statements is
 an incorrect technical choice
2. Objections
 not heard [RFC 2026 § 6.5.1] A false statement about objections means that
 the objections were not heard.
3. Pre-requisite
 for consensus not met [RFC 2026 § 6.5.2] A false statement about the
 consensus means that a pre-requisite for consensus was not met.







§6.5.1 Working Group Disputes:


“(a) his or her own views have not been adequately
 considered by the Working Group (b) the Working Group has made an incorrect
 technical choice which places the quality and/or integrity of the Working
 Group’s product(s) in significant jeopardy.”







§6.5.2 Process Failures:


“[…] it is the IESG is charged with ensuring that
 the required procedures have been followed, and that any necessary
 prerequisites to a standards action have been met”







.












Peter Koch posted a statement to
 the DNSOP WG list on September 13th, 2008 that contained inaccurate
 and untruthful statements







First Inaccurate Statement on BCP38 Sufficiciency
-------------------------------------------------







On September 10, 2008, Area
 Director Bonica stated two conditions that were required to approve the
 document:



```


```

The questions before the WG
 are:







- is BCP38 enough to mitigate the
 attack vectors described in draft-ietf-dnsop-reflectors-are-evil-06


- is filtering after the attack
 has begun good enough







If the answer to both of these
 questions is "no", the document can go forward as is.







In his message of September 13th message reporting consensus to the Area Director Bonica, Koch states that the
 consensus to the first question: 







Amongst those individuals who responded directly to the
 questions, there was consensus that wide deployment of BCP38 would be
 sufficient







That’s it: the question is
 answered. The answer is YES. Instead, Koch then goes on to reverse this
 consensus because somehow, *BCP38 is not widely deployed*. While some
 persons did make unsubstantiated claims that BCP38 is not widely deployed,  no evidence that BCP38 was not widely
 deployed was given. BCP38 has been a
 best practice since 2000 and adoption continues. It should be noted that there are wide variety of attacks that
 require packets with spoofed source IP addresses. These attacks include a variety of reflection/amplification
 attacks such as ICMP directed broadcast, DNS authority server attacks, TCP syn
 flood attacks, etc. All of these
 attacks are mitigated by a combination of BCP38 implementation and filtering
 after an attack has begun.







Second inaccurate statement: Sufficiency of Response after
 Attack
------------------------------------------------------------------







Koch reports in his September 13th message:







There is also consensus that taking action after an
 attack has started is not a sufficient defense mechanism and proactive measures
 are needed. The WG's answer to the second question is "no".







There was no evidence given by the
 Working Group that filtering was not a sufficient defense. In the reported
 attacks, filtering worked. Filtering is also used in a variety of other,
 similar, distributed denial of service (DDOS) attacks. There is nothing
 particularly different about the DNS reflection attack that distinguishes it
 from other types of DDOS attacks.  BCP38
 is a “Proactive measures”. As pointed
 out previously, a botnet can exploit the ordinary recursors available to the
 botnet even if closed, so closing open recursors doesn’t not alter the equation,
 and was not the only “proactive measure”. The choice presented to the Working
 Group was simply a fallacy of false choice.  This fallacy of false choice significantly affects the integrity
 of the Working Group product.







Third untruthful statement: Nobody expressed opposition
-------------------------------------------------------







Mr. Koch states in his September 13th message reporting: (emphasis added)







Several other people have expressed their support for
 publishing the draft "as is", **nobody expressed opposition.**







In fact, Kevin Darcy and Dean
 Anderson expressed opposition to the document. Although Mr. Koch notes later that Dean Anderson dissents, it is
 separated and apart from the text reporting no opposition such that Dean
 Anderson’s view is unfairly and improperly discounted and disregarded by the Working
 Group. RFC2026 Section 6.5.1 (a) allows an appeal when “views have not been
 adequately considered by the Working Group”. 












Unlawful interference in
 right to democratic participation in ISOC activity.
=============================================================================







This article is brought under RFC
 2026 § 6.5.3 and describes several improper activities:







§6.5.3 Questions of Applicable Procedure: 


“Further recourse is available only in cases in
 which the procedures themselves (i.e., the procedures described in this
 document) are claimed to be inadequate or insufficient to the protection of the
 rights of all parties in a fair and open Internet Standards Process.”







This article will show that the
 IETF procedures are inadequate to protect the property rights of members of the
 IETF. Prior demands and notices have
 been made to the IESG and IAB. This article describes predicate acts that add
 to those prior claims, and so must be read as conjoined to the prior demands
 and notices. It should also be noted
 that the same group of persons and companies collectively described as the BIND
 Cartel is alleged to have engaged in similar acts and fabrications at ARIN and
 NANOG, with similar objectives to threaten and interfere with the democratic
 rights of members to participate in democratic processes and governance. Those acts will not be described here
 except in the most general sense.







*This group of
 gangsters, aided and abetted by their relatives and sycophants, engaged in a
 multifaceted orgy of criminal activity. For those that enthusiastically
 followed these arrogant mobsters in their morally debased activity there were material
 rewards. For those who accepted the side benefits of this perverted
 interpretation of business unionism, see J. Hutchinson, The Imperfect Union p.
 371, (1970), there was presumably the rationalization of "I've got mine,
 why shouldn't he get his." For those who attempted to fight, the message
 was clear. Murder and other forms of intimidation would be utilized to insure silence.
 To get along, one had to go along, or else.*


  —U.S. v.
 Local 560 581 F.Supp. 279







Similarly, the BIND Cartel aided
 and abetted by their self-interested business associates and sycophants,
 engaged in a multifaceted orgy of improper activity of which the issues in this
 appeal are but one part. Similarly, for those that enthusiastically followed
 this arrogant group in their morally debased activity there were material
 rewards. Similarly, for those who
 accepted the side benefits of this perverted interpretation of Internet
 business and trade standards, there was presumably the rationalization of
 "I've got mine, why shouldn't he get his." Similarly, for those who attempted to fight, the message was
 clear. Email blacklisting, and other forms of intimidation would be utilized to
 insure silence. To get along, one had to go along, or else.







On September 13th, 2008 Peter Koch, DNSOP WG Chair, sent email to
 the list notifying the list of the suspension of posting rights to Dean
 Anderson. Koch falsely asserts there is
 a standing PR-action against Dean Anderson, despite knowledge of the falsity of
 this claim. Koch was notified of
 falsity of this claim and referred to the consensus messages found at the
 IETF-watch site. The IESG has previously been notified that
 its procedure in RFC3683 doesn’t comply with the bylaws of the ISOC and laws
 under which the ISOC is chartered. The IESG and IAB has disregarded the laws
 quoted in previous appeals, and through email to the IESG and IAB admin lists.







Hobbs Act Allegations
---------------------







The Hobbs Act states 4 requirements
 for prohibited activity:


1. Did
 the defendant induce or attempt to induce the victim to give up property
 or property rights?
2. Did
 the defendant use or attempt to use the victim's reasonable fear of
 physical injury or economic harm in order to induce the victim's consent
 to give up property?
3. Did
 the defendant's conduct actually or potentially obstruct, delay, or affect
 interstate or foreign commerce in any (realistic) way or degree?
4. Was
 the defendant's actual or threatened use of force, violence or fear
 wrongful?







Violation of the Hobbs Act is a predicate for violation of
 the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act. 


### First Allegation Against David Kessens







Anderson and AV8 Internet, Inc
 individually and collectively as member of the ISOC have a property right to
 participate in a democratic process by a trade organization known as the ISOC
 and the ISOC IETF Activity, satisfying the first condition of the Hobbs Act.







On September 23, 2005 David Kessens
 threatened to the property right to harm of Anderson and AV8 Internet, Inc to
 participate in a democratic process of the IETF unless Anderson gives up the
 right to object to improper and unlawful activity through the IETF process.
 Anderson’s objections involved DNS Anycast, and Kessens’ associates stood to
 benefit if unfavorable facts didn’t come to light. The wrongful nature of this threat has been the subject of
 previous complaints and demands. It is a
 predicate act satisfying the second condition of the Hobbs Act.







The threat made on September 23, 2005 had the potential to
 obstruct plaintiff’s right to democratically participate in the ISOC trade
 organization and trade activity. This
 democratic activity involves interstate commerce and interstate communications.  This act has actually obstructed the
 democratic participation of Anderson and AV8 Internet, Inc. This satisfies the third condition of the
 Hobbs Act.







As stated previously, the acts of objecting to fraud and
 false statements is a proper activity within the ISOC and the ISOC IETF
 Activity. The acts of disputing the assertions of others is also a proper
 activity with the  ISOC and the ISOC
 IETF Activity.  The statements made by Anderson on the DNSOP
 email list were fully explained and demonstrated by true statements objections
 to DNS Anycast. The threats against
 Anderson, and only Anderson, to prevent objections about false statements by
 other members of the IETF was wrongful and created unfair trade advantages to
 the particular ISOC and ISOC IETF Activity members benefiting from the false
 statements. This satisfies the fourth and final condition of the Hobbs Act. 

















Area Director Kessens selected Peter Koch to be DNSOP
 Working Group Chair on October 20th, 2005.  Area Director Kessens admitted to “playing
 hardball” with drafts involving DNS Anycast.







### Second Allegation Against Peter Koch







On June 24, 2006, Peter Koch
 threatened the property right to harm of Anderson and AV8 Internet, Inc to
 participate in a democratic process of the IETF unless Anderson gives up the
 right to object to improper and unlawful activity through the IETF
 process. The June 24 message asserts
 that “fraud” is somehow inappropriate to IETF Working Group discussion. However
 RFC2026 states in Section 6.5.1 that anything that “places the quality and/or
 integrity of the Working Group's product(s) in significant jeopardy” is
 appropriate for discussion and a proper basis for dispute. Fraud on the IETF clearly places the
 integrity of the Working Group product in jeopardy. The IETF has also
 previously dealt with false and fraudulent statements to the IETF during the
 TLS-Authz controversy and the IESG reversed approval of a document after false statements were
 discovered. Issues of fraud are a
 proper subject to the IETF democratic process. The June 24 message threatens Anderson to give up objecting to fraud and
 false statements made by other members of the IETF or suffer the economic harm
 of loss of democratic participation. This satisfies the second condition of the
 Hobbs Act.







The threat made on June 24, 2006 had the potential to
 obstruct plaintiff’s right to democratically participate in the ISOC trade
 organization and trade activity. This
 democratic activity involves interstate commerce and interstate
 communications. On September 13, 2008,
 Peter Koch carried out the threat made more than 2 years prior on June 24,
 2006. This act has actually obstructed
 the democratic participation of Anderson and AV8 Internet, Inc. This satisfies the third condition of the
 Hobbs Act.







As stated, objecting to fraud and false statements is a
 proper activity within the ISOC and the ISOC IETF Activity. The statements made by Anderson on the DNSOP
 email list were fully explained and demonstrated by true statements the legal
 requirements commonly given for fraud. The threats against Anderson, and only Anderson, to prevent objections
 about false statements by other members of the IETF was wrongful and created
 unfair trade advantages to the particular ISOC and ISOC IETF Activity members
 benefiting from the false statements. This satisfies the fourth and final
 condition of the Hobbs Act. 







Allegation of RICO Violation
----------------------------







These acts, included with other
 related acts at the American Registry for Internet Numbers (ARIN), ISOC, and
 NANOG conducted by a group collectively described as the Bind Cartel, including
 but not limited to Paul Vixie and others, effect profit for and further an
 unlawful organization or association in violation of the Racketeer Influenced
 and Corrupt Organizations Act, 18 U.S.C. §1962(c). 







On information and belief, Mr. Koch
 has knowledge of and consented to at least two RICO predicate acts performed by
 others, which is an act prohibited by the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
 Organizations Act, 18 U.S.C. §1962(d).







If evidence is developed that Mr.
 Koch acted at Mr. Bonica’s or someone else’s request, that person is a
 principal under 18 U.S.C. §2. 







Consent by the IESG members, IAB
 members, and ISOC corporate officers to at least two RICO predicate acts
 performed by others, is prohibited by 18 U.S.C. §1962(d). 







A civil remedy is allowed by 18
 U.S.C. §1964. 







There may be other legal issues
 that can and will be raised, should suit become necessary. 







It is my sincere hope that these
 matters can be resolved without suit. 












Dean Anderson


President


AV8 Internet, Inc







