 
IAB Appeal of IESG PR-Action Against Dean Anderson


The Problem
-----------


The PR-Action against Dean Anderson approved by the IESG has a great number 
 of problems. It makes a number of false allegations. There are procedural irregularities 
 and numerous other problems. Among the most serious problems, IETF and ISOC 
 officials are found to be acting contrary to the ISOC charter, with serious 
 conflicts of interest involving financial benefits. Professional dishonesty 
 is uncovered and substantiated. Integrity of IETF documents and IETF Officials 
 is found lacking. Allegations of corruption are substantiated. And the specific 
 claims of the PR-Action are refuted, found false and often found taken absurdly 
 out of context.. Some preliminaries are in order before we get to the specific 
 PR claims. Effort has been made to write in 3rd person so as to make absolutely 
 clear who said what. 


* biographical background,
* definitions,
* obligations,
* organization charters,
* policies and responsibilities,
* requirements of RFC 3683,
* procedural irregularites,
* unreported conflicts of interest,
* incitement against Av8 Internet and Anderson
* specific PR claims


Biographical Background on Anderson
-----------------------------------


Dean Anderson has participated in the IETF main list and the DNSEXT group for 
 many years.Anderson has not been subjected to any previous suspensions, such 
 as that contemplated by RFC 3934. Anderson has 20 years experience in the industry, 
 is founder of several companies, including a successful internet service provider, 
 Av8 Internet with facilities in New England. Anderson has became active in the 
 League for Programming Freedom(LPF) during the late 80s, and has served in its 
 leadership as its corporate secretary and as its president. The LPF was founded 
 by Richard Stallman (founder of GNU) and is a 503(c)(3) non-profit dedicated 
 to fighting software patents and user interface copyrights. Anderson led the 
 LPF to a 1996 victory in the US Supreme Court on the subject of user interface 
 copyrights in Lotus V. Borland, and organized Amicus briefs including one signed 
 by 81 prominent computer scientists including Harold Abelson, Peter Deutsch, 
 John McCarthy, Gerald Sussman, and many others. As a result, there are no user 
 interface copyrights. Though 20 years of industry work, Anderson has experience 
 running large and small datacenters including running computer systems from 
 IBM and Hitachi mainframes to KSR supercomputers to networks hundreds of unix 
 workstations. Anderson has proficiency in several programming languages including 
 C, C++, Java, and several assemblers, and scripting languages. Anderson has 
 contributed to large projects such as OSF/1, Motif, DCE, as well as many in-house 
 software projects. Anderson has worked for companies including the Charles Stark 
 Draper Laboratory (formerly the MIT Instrumentation Lab), the Open Software 
 Foundation, Kendall Square Research, and Hitachi Computer Products. Anderson 
 (through a consultancy he founded), has consulted to the Open Environment Corporation, 
 The Open Group, GTE Internetworking, Genuity (the big Genuity, as distinguished 
 from the little Genuity), and many other companies on IT and VOIP infrastracture, 
 engineering, and software development. Anderson attended the University of South 
 Dakota and took coursework in computer science. Anderson also attended the Massachussetts 
 Institute of Technology as a special student and took coursework in mathematics 
 and computer sciences. 


Disclaimer
----------


Legal Disclaimer: In places this document refers to legal obligations and demands 
 on certain organizations and individuals. It should be noted that this document 
 is not submitted as a complete or final description of any legal demands which 
 might be made by Anderson or Av8 Internet or others, but is submitted only for 
 due process consideration by the IAB. No limitation on rights is accepted nor 
 are any specific legal theories offered. These references are to be taken only 
 as preliminary notices of infringements and preliminary demands to cease and 
 desist, according to our prudent duties to make such notices and demands known.


Definitions -- Black's Law Dictionary
-------------------------------------



Charitable Trust.
One in which property held by a trustee must be used for charitable purposes
 (advancement of health, religion, etc.). Fiduciary relationship with respect to property arising
 as a result of a manifestation of an intention to create it, and subjecting the person by whom the 
 property is held to equitable duties to deal with the property for a charitable purpose.
Integrity.
As used in statutes prescribing the qualifications of public officers, trustees, 
 etc., this term means soundness or moral principle and character, as shown 
 by one person dealing with others in the making and performance of contracts, 
 and fidelity and honesty in the discharge of trusts; it is snyonymous with 
 "probity," "honesty," and "uprightness."
Fiduciary duty
A duty to act for someone else's benefit, while subordinating
 one's personal interests to that of the other person. It is the highest standard of 
 duty implied by law (e.g. trustee, guardian).
Ficticious
Founded on a fiction; having the character of a fiction; pretended; 
 counterfeit; Feigned, imaginay, not real, false, not genuine, nonexistant. Arbitrarilly invented
 and set up, to accomplish an ulterior object.

Definitions -- Oxford English Dictionary
----------------------------------------



Integrity
1. The condition of having no part or element taken away or wanting; undivided 
 or unbroken state; material wholeness, completeness, entirety.   

 2. The condition of not being marred or violated; unimparired or uncorrupted 
 condition; original perfect state; soundness.   

 3. In a moral sense. a. Unimpaired moral state; freedom from moral corruption; 
 innocence, sinlessness; b. Soundness of moral principle; the character of
 uncorrupted virtue, esp. in relation to truth and fair dealing; uprightness, honesty,
 sincerity. 
 

IETF, IAB are Activities of the Internet Society (ISOC)
-------------------------------------------------------


The ISOC is a professional society. The IETF and IAB are activities of the ISOC.


<http://www.isoc.org/isoc/>: (emphasis added)
 
> The Internet SOCiety (ISOC) is a **professional membership society** with more than 100 organization and over 20,000 individual members in over 180 
>  countries. It provides leadership in addressing issues that confront the future 
>  of the Internet, and is the **organization home** for the groups 
>  responsible for Internet infrastructure standards, including the **Internet 
>  Engineering Task Force** (IETF) and the **Internet Architecture 
>  Board** (IAB).
>   Since 1992, the Internet Society has served as the international
>  organization for global coordination and cooperation on the Internet,
>  promoting and maintaining a broad spectrum of activities focused on the
>  Internet's development, availability, and associated technologies. 
> 
> 
> The Internet Society acts not only as a global clearinghouse for
>  Internet information and education but also as a facilitator and
>  coordinator of Internet-related initiatives around the world. Through
>  its annual International Networking (INET) conference and other
>  sponsored events, developing-country training workshops, tutorials,
>  statistical and market research, publications, public policy and trade
>  activities, regional and local chapters, standardization activities,
>  committees and an international secretariat, the Internet Society
>  serves the needs of the growing global Internet community. From
>  commerce to education to social issues, our goal is to enhance the
>  availability and utility of the Internet on the widest possible scale. 
> 
> 
> 


Obligations of the Internet Society (ISOC)
------------------------------------------


It should be kept firmly at the forefront that the ISOC is **not a private 
 club** with entirely arbitrary, capricous and whimsical rules which may 
 benefit whomever and whatever private interests it so pleases.


 Section 3 of the ISOC Articles of Incorporation: <http://www.isoc.org/isoc/general/trustees/incorp.shtml>

> 
> 3. The purpose or purposes for which the corporation is organized are as 
>  follows: To be a **non-profit corporation** (without capital 
>  stock), which shall be **operated exclusively for educational, charitable 
>  and scientific purposes**. Such educational, charitable, and scientific 
>  purposes shall include carrying on activities:
> 	1. To
> 	 facilitate and support the technical evolution of the Internet as a
> 	 research and education infrastructure, and to stimulate the involvement
> 	 of the scientific community, industry, government and others in the
> 	 evolution of the Internet;
> 	2. To educate the scientific community, industry and the public at
> 	 large concerning the technology, use and application of the Internet;
> 	3. To promote educational applications of Internet technology for the
> 	 benefit of government, colleges and universities, industry, and the
> 	 public at large;
> 	4. To provide a forum for exploration of new Internet applications,
> 	 and to stimulate collaboration among organizations in their operational
> 	 use of the global Internet.
>  To exercise all the powers conferred upon corporations formed under the
>  District of Columbia Non-Profit Corporation Act in order to accomplish
>  the corporation's educational, charitable and scientific purposes; and
>  to take other actions necessary or convenient to effect any or all of
>  the purposes for which the corporation is organized.
> 
> 
> 


 The ISOC is a 501(c)(3) Tax Exempt Charitable Organization <http://www.irs.gov/charities/charitable/article/0,,id=96099,00.html>:
 * > "An organization will be regarded as "operated exclusively" 
>  for one or more exempt purposes only if it engages primarily in activities 
>  which accomplish one or more of the exempt purposes specified in IRC Section 
>  501(c)(3). An organization will not be so regarded if more than an insubstantial 
>  part of its activities is not in furtherance of an exempt purpose."
* > "The organization must not be organized or operated for the 
>  benefit of private interests, such as the creator or the creator's family, 
>  shareholders of the organization, other designated individuals, or persons 
>  controlled directly or indirectly by such private interests."


**Serve the public trust:** ISOC Fiduciary responsibilities
 <http://www.isoc.org/isoc/general/trustees/conflictofinterest.shtml>: 


 (Emphasis added)
 
> 
> 2. Fiduciary Responsibilities. ***Members of the Board, officers, 
>  and employees*** of ISOC **serve the public trust** and have a **clear obligation** to fulfill their responsibilities 
>  in a manner consistent with this fact. **All decisions** of the *Board* and *officers* of the administration and *faculty* are to be made **solely** on the basis of a desire to promote 
>  the **best interests** of the institution and the **public good**. 
>  ISOC's **integrity** must be **protected and advanced** at all times. 
> 
> 
> 


IETF Policies and Responsibilities
----------------------------------


 Besides acting consistently with the ISOC policies and responsibilities, the IETF 
 must comply with its own internal policies. Of particular relevence to this docuement 
 are the following rules and policies of the IETF.
 1. **WG Chair responsibilities** RFC 2418, section 6.1 of RFC 
 2418: (emphasis added)
 
> 
> The Chair has the responsibility and the authority to make decisions,
>  on behalf of the working group, regarding all matters of working
>  group process and staffing, **in conformance with the rules of the
>  IETF**. The *AD* [Area Director -ed] has the authority and 
>  the r*esponsibility to assist* in
>  making those decisions at the request of the Chair or *when
>  circumstances warrant such an intervention*.
>
2. **Working Group Disputes** RFC 2026 Section 6.5.1 (emphasis 
 added)
 
> 
> 6.5.1 Working Group Disputes 
> 
> 
>  An individual (whether a participant in the relevant Working Group or 
>  not) may disagree with a Working Group recommendation based on his or 
>  her belief that either (a) *his or her own views have not been adequately 
>  considered by the Working Group*, or (b) the *Working Group has 
>  made an incorrect technical choice which places the **quality and/or 
>  integrity** of the Working Group's product(s) in significant jeopardy*. 
>  The first issue is a difficulty with Working Group process; the latter 
>  is an assertion of technical error. These two types of disagreement are 
>  quite different, but both are handled by the same process of review. 
> 
> 
>  A person who disagrees with a Working Group recommendation shall always *first 
>  discuss the matter with the Working Group's chair(s)*, who may involve 
>  other members of the Working Group (or the Working Group as a whole) in 
>  the discussion.
> 
> 
> 


 Each Working Group has a charter page which lists an email address for the Working Group Chair(s), 
 The Area Director(s), and the Area Advisor(s), as well as any discussion group email lists.


Requirements for RFC 3683
-------------------------



> 
> 2. A Revocation Practice 
> 
> 
> A PR-action identifies one or more individuals, citing messages
>  posted by those individuals to an IETF mailing list, that appear to
>  be abusive of the consensus-driven process. 
> 
> 
> 


RFC 3683 is meant to prevent disruption of IETF activities. Meetings might 
 be disrupted by hecklers who interrupt the speaker. Mailing lists might be similarly 
 disrupted. However, "Disruption" implies that the IETF and DNSEXT lists couldn't 
 conduct its proper business. No disruption has occurred, and none is evidenced 
 in the messages given in the instant PR-Action. Dean Anderson has not heckled 
 anyone. But in fact, it is Anderson who has been heckled and abused, including 
 including being defamed by, among others, representatives of the IETF who have 
 inappropriately used the auspices of their IETF roles to do so. 


 RFC 3683 Procedure:
 
> 
> Regardless of whether the PR-action revokes or restores posting
>  rights, the IESG follows the same algorithm as with its other
>  actions:
> 
> 
>  1. it is introduced by an IESG Area Director (AD), who, prior to
>  doing so, may choose to inform the interested parties;
> 
> 
>  2. it is published as an IESG last call on the IETF general
>  discussion list;
> 
> 
>  3. it is discussed by the community;
> 
> 
>  4. it is discussed by the IESG; and, finally,
> 
> 
>  5. using the usual consensus-based process, it is decided upon by
>  the IESG.
> 
> 
> 



Procedural Irregularities in the PR-Action
------------------------------------------


1. Step 1 was not followed. Only an AD can **initiate** a PR-Action.
 
> "The IESG received a request from Dave Crocker to take action under RFC
>  3683 against Dean Anderson. Mr Crocker alleged disruption of the IETF
>  and DNSEXT lists and provided sample emails "


 In this case, it is reported that Dave Crocker initiated the PR-Action. 
 Dave Crocker is not an Area Director. While Crocker can provide the text, 
 and can be acknowledged as an author, the action must be **initiated** by an Area Director.. The IESG Teleconference minutes suggest (statement 
 by Kessens) that Brian Carpenter initiated the Action: From the September 
 29 IESG Teleconference minutes (emphasis added)
 
> 
> 6.2 Request to remove Dean Anderson posting privileges to the IETF 
>  & dnsop mail lists (**David Kessens**) 
> 
> 
> 
> > **David Kessens said that Brian Carpenter took the first 
> >  initiative there, after the request from Dave Crocker under RFC 3683.** Brian Carpenter said that an AD was needed to shepherd this, and noted 
> >  that Dean Anderson could continue to post for 4 weeks during the last 
> >  call. 
> 
> 
> 
> > David Kessens was appointed to shepherd this request. 
> 
> 
> 


 The claim that Carpenter took first initiative is not supported by the record 
 of the IETF list, nor of the minutes themselves. Kessens made the threat 
 offlist, then again on-list, and is recorded as adding the agenda item for 
 the teleconference. The effect seems to be to obscure conflict of interest. 
 However, both Carpenter and Kessens have conflicts of interest in the form 
 of personal relationships and neither has reported or avoided these conflicts 
 of interest as required.
2. Step 2 of the procedure was not followed. RFC 3683 requires the action 
 to be announced on the General IETF list. It wasn't. Instead it was "re-announced" 
 after substantial discussion took place. This may seem like a minor issue, 
 however the "re-issuance" subsequently disrupted discussion as 
 required in step 3.
3. Step 3 was not heeded. 133 messages were posted on the subject of RFC 3683 as of 
 February 8, 2006
 Nearly all comments regarding RFC 3683 have been negative.
4. Step 4 of the procedure was not followed. The minutes of the IESG do not 
 reflect the discussion. RFC 2026 Section 8 requires publicly accessible records:
 
> 
> 8. NOTICES AND RECORD KEEPING
> 
> 
> Each of the organizations involved in the development and approval of
>  Internet Standards shall publicly announce, and shall maintain a
>  publicly accessible record of, every activity in which it engages, to
>  the extent that the activity represents the prosecution of any part
>  of the Internet Standards Process. For purposes of this section, the
>  organizations involved in the development and approval of Internet
>  Standards includes the IETF, the IESG, the IAB, all IETF Working
>  Groups, and the Internet Society Board of Trustees.
> 
> 
>
5. Step 5 of the procedure was not followed. No vote was held in accordance 
 with the "usual, consenus based process", which requires publicly 
 accessible records in Section 8 of RFC 2026. No discussion is recorded. No vote is recorded.
 
> 
> 6.3 Approval of text for PR-Action decision (Brian Carpenter)
> 
> 
> <discussion here was not minuted>
> 
> 
>



Unreported Conflicts of Interest in the PR-Action
-------------------------------------------------


 Following is a summary of unreported conflicts of interest. Many of these will 
 be addressed in more detail elsewhere in this document.
 * PR claim that Dave Crocker is sole author of PR-Action is false. (see below)
	+ Crocker doesn't participate in dnsop working group.
	+ September 23, 2005 Kessens threatened revenge on Anycast subject of 
	 this complaint.
	+ September 29, 2005 IESG Minutes indicate Kessens added agenda item. 
	 Suspicious correction in minutes by Kessens that it was Carpenter who 
	 initiated this action.
* Kessens involvement with Woolf (see below)
	+ Woolf and Kessens worked together at ISI
	+ Woolf is ISC program manager for ISC Anycast, related to this complaint
	+ ISC promotion of Anycast
* Kessens Previous employment with RIPE (see below)
	+ RIPE promotion of Anycast
	+ Daniel Karrenberg supervised Kessens at RIPE. Karrenberg has been involved 
	 in Anycast controversy.


### Previous Conflict with Crocker


 This is somewhat complicated. However, one can see a pattern that indicates that 
 Crocker is trying to abuse the IETF process to suppress valid criticism of the 
 quality and integrity of his SpamOps document. It is plain that Crocker has fairly 
 extreme views on Open Relay use, and extreme views on spam, and has associations 
 with anti-spam personalities of Court-proven questionable integrity. Anderson 
 has had conflict with such extreme anti-spam personalities personally, and has 
 found that they typically degenerate into attacks (ad hominems as well as DDOS 
 on email servers). Most people do not engage in discussions with such people as 
 a result. However, Anderson has found that when forced by their lawyers to act 
 civilly, that their arguments do not stand up to critical analysis. (see <http://www.iadl.org/JATerranson/JATerranson-story.html> , see <http://www.av8.net/FTC.pdf>) In 
 light of this, it is easy to see that Crocker is just trying to suppress valid 
 criticism of his insuffiiciently supported views on spam control. If Crocker was 
 right, and Anderson was "crazy", there would be little need to ban Anderson 
 few posts.
 * June 22, 2004 Crocker says Anderson is "denying resources" during complaints 
 about attacks by Paul Vixie. Between May 17 and June 19, 2004, Vixie sends 
 a total of 11 messages to the IETF list: 4 messages are personal attacks on 
 Anderson, and 1 message is an attack on JFC Morfin. Crocker absurdly claims 
 it is Anderson who is "denying resources". Crocker provides no evidence 
 to support his claim. Anderson's complaint involved abuse of "anti-spam" 
 methods for harassment. Crocker is an anti-spam zealot.  

<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg30620.html>
* June 15, 2005 It is hard to summarize this dispute in a few messages. 
 Here are some samples   

 Crocker makes assertions:   

<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg35735.html>   

 Many besides Anderson dispute these assertions E.G.:   

<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg35744.html>   

 E.g. Anderson refutes Crocker's unsupported claims:   

<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg35792.html>   

 Crocker makes other false claims of ad hominem against those with whom 
 he disagrees:   

<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg35768.html>   

 Anderson reveals integrity and quality of quoted sources of information 
 and demonstrates fallacies in assertions   

<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg35860.html>   

 Questions integrity and quality is specified in RFC 2026 Section 6.5.1 
 as basis for a valid complaint. However, this leads to a conflict with 
 Carpenter, Crocker, Alvestrand over association with known court-proven 
 liars.
* June 24, 2005 Conflict with Brian Carpenter and Dave Crocker over association 
 with known, court-proven liars.   

 Crocker attempts to gain consensus for "spamops" document by deception 
 and false claims. Carpenter tries to assist this by preventing any report 
 about the false claims in Crocker's document, and the association to court-proven 
 liars.
	+ Carpenter attempts to suppress facts about the SpamOps document:   
	
	<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg35860.html>   
	
	<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg35872.html>   
	
	 Carpenter colludes with Crocker to try to develop a consensus based on 
	 false facts. Anderson properly offered facts relevent to the integrity 
	 and quality of the document.. Open Relay zealots have frequently made 
	 similar claims, but cannot successfully defend their counter-factual assertions 
	 in a civil forum. (see for example .<http://www.iadl.org/JATerranson/JATerranson-story.html>) 
	 Discussion is taken off list. See <http://www.av8.net/IETF-watch/Tytso.html>
	+ Carpenter subject to criticism of his leadership for failing to uphold 
	 has an obligation to "advance the integrity of the ISOC at all times". 
	 Associating with court-proven liars does great harm to the integrity of 
	 the organization.
	  
	
	 A summary validating the relevance of Anderson's arguments against SpamOps 
	 integrity.   
	
	<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg35957.html>
* June 26, 2005 Carpenter refuses to hold Alvestrand to IETF Code of Conduct:   

 What **irritates** Alvestrand (see quoted text in message) is 
 the notion advanced by Anderson that the IETF shouldn't associate with known 
 liars, and that doing so harms the IETF's integrity.  

<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg35888.html>   

<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg35890.html>   

<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg35904.html>   

 The double standard is noticed by others. Carpenter's behavior does not remind 
 one of "fidelity and honesty in the discharge of trusts"  

<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg35938.html>   

 Crocker, again
* June 26, 2005 Anderson raises a complaint asserting the IETF Code of Conduct 
 violation and renews prior complaint dismissed by Alvestrand in 2004:   

<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg35891.html>   

 Carpenter blandly dismisses the complaints of serious abuse because he is 
 not subscribed to namedroppers..   

<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg35905.html>   

 But others think something should be done for the integrity of the IESG:   

<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg35912.html>   

 Carpenter refuses. Asserts topic is irrelvent. Asserts counter-factual that 
 the Chair' refusing to enforce professional conduct rules is 'sticking to 
 professional discourse'  

<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg35969.html>   

 Hyperbolic "Officials behaving like bribed judges" (author privately 
 regrets the emotion in this message): A view that Carpenter takes digs at 
 Anderson:   

<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg35993.html>
* June 27, 2005 Crocker attacks (someone?). This message is widely seen as 
 critical of Alvestrand. It even evokes several messages in defense of Alvestrand.  

<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg35906.html>   

 But Alvestrand isn't who Crocker means to attack. Crocker means to attack 
 Anderson:   

<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg35920.html>
* June 30 - July 11, 2005 Offlist conflict with Brian Carpenter regarding 
 dishonest statements by IETF Sergeant at Arms, Ted T'so. Carpenter unconcerned 
 with indisputably false statements by T'so regarding number of Court cases.  

<http://www.av8.net/IETF-watch/Tytso.html>
* July 20, 2005 Crocker collecting data on how to ban people from IETF  

<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg36465.html>
* September 8, 2005 Crocker makes personal attack on Anderson (see below Sections 
 I.b,I.d,I.e)   

<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg37554.html>   

 Crocker again wants to ban Anderson. Despite being the provocateur initiating 
 personal attack, Crocker asserts "hostile environment"   

<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg37562.html>


This message by Nick Staff seems to sum things up (emphasis added) : <http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg37885.html>



> 
> In the last six months approximately 65%-75% of email generated by or about
>  Dean to this list have been in response to messages that complained about
>  the relevancy of his comments. In fact roughly 20% of all mail this list
>  has received either by or relating to Dean has been from this thread alone.
>  If you remove those messages from the count then over the last six months
>  Dean averages around one email every 4-6 days. (all figures are rough
>  "at-a-glance" calculations as opposed to pen and paper).
> 
> 
> Without getting into the discussion of **whether an email every 5 days 
>  is a
>  DOS** I would certainly like to state for the record that without question 
>  the
>  pettiness has taken far more thought than the productivity, and so **if 
>  Dean's
>  posts are a DOS then the posts trying to protect us from them have been an
>  atom bomb.** 
> 
> 
> 


This "atom bomb" is the reaction of zealots who can't stand civil 
 discussion of the cherished false assumptions.


Now is a good time to review the IETF and ISOC responsibilities, and the definitions 
 of the words "integrity", and particularly the OED version of 



> 3. In a moral sense. a. Unimpaired moral state; freedom from moral corruption; 
>  innocence, sinlessness; b. Soundness of moral principle; the character of
>  uncorrupted virtue, esp. in relation to truth and fair dealing; uprightness, honesty,
>  sincerity. 


 Do these acts remind one of "truth and fair dealing"? "Uprightness"? 
 "Honesty?", or even "Sincerity"?   

 Do these acts reflect well on the ISOC and IETF?
 
Incitement Against Anderson and Av8 Internet
--------------------------------------------


At first glance, this may seem external to the IETF however, many of the 
 messages attacking Anderson are on the IETF lists, and includes IETF officials. 
 Because these abuses are conducted on IETF lists, sometimes by IETF officials, 
 the causes and motives of this spiteful and malicious behavior needs to be 
 considered in context. Persons reviewing this appeal have noted an that there 
 is a lot of vitriol directed at Mr. Anderson. Some explanation of that vitriol 
 sheds a great deal of light on these abuses.


For years, some anti-spammers have promoted incitement against Anderson and 
 Av8 Internet by claiming that Anderson or Av8 Internet has engaged in lawsuits 
 against anti-spammers. They do this because they cannot argue civilly, and 
 the abuse escalates over time. First they start with calling one "troll" 
 or "spammer". Consider for example this exchange between Paul Vixie 
 and Anthony Atkeilsky: Vixie writes 



> > > warning, i'm answering an obvious troll from an obvious 
>  spammer. [...]  
> 
>  >   
> 
>  > In other words, you disagree with me, but for reasons I won't go into,  
> 
>  > you cannot resist the urge to reply.
>  actually, i can speak for myself, there's no need to interpret for me.
> 
> 
> i'm calling you a troll because you're urging people to pay no attention  
> 
>  to the costs, to just hit delete, and to avoid filtering since you claim  
> 
>  that the costs of false positives are too high. that's three for three.
> 
> 
> 


 Atkeilsky merely disagrees with Vixie's assertions and is prepared to discuss 
 the reasons for disagreement. For this, he is called an "obvious troll" 
 and "obvious spammer". Neither are obvious. But questioning cherished 
 notions however ill-conceived, irrational, and exaggerated results in escalating 
 verbal and physical abuse.
  Rather than a complete history, the following exchange between Anderson 
 and a network administrator serves to exemplify the level of incitement. This 
 particular discussion involved SORBS false claims. Anderson writes: 



> "Misplaced" suggests a lack of malice. Malice is present with SORBS.


 To which the network administrator replies:
 
> Your lawsuits may have given rise to that malice. 


In fact, neither Anderson nor Av8 Internet has ever been a participant in 
 any such lawsuit. Anderson predicted and correctly analyzed several activities 
 by over-zealous anti-spammers that were later found to be illegal or otherwise 
 unlawful in lawsuits. Av8 Internet **did** have a conflict with 
 Savvis Communications involving attorneys, but AV8 Internet's position prevailed 
 after the issues in the matter were specified, and so it did not result in 
 litigation. The Savvis employee subsequently made false statements against 
 Av8 Internet. (see <http://www.iadl.org/JATerranson/JATerranson-story.html>)


At other times, Anderson has been called "lawsuit-happy", in efforts to demonize 
 and villify Anderson. Again, neither Anderson nor Av8 Internet has ever been 
 a participant in any such lawsuit. 


 Given the great number of reports about abuse by blacklists, and including court 
 cases establishing their dishonesty, it seems well established that some anti-spammers 
 are dishonest. Some are unethical. And some are spitefully unhappy to get thorough 
 analysis, detailed research, and good answers as Anderson did regarding Anti-trust 
 and the Electronic Communications Privacy Act years before cases such as Exactis 
 V. MAPS and Konop V. Hawaiian Airlines vindicated Anderson. As Moltke said: 
 "success determines reputation", and it is Anderson's success at analysis, research, 
 and good answers that is the source of this spiteful behavior. When Nanog'ers 
 (including the ASRG's own John Levine) asserted that the ECPA didn't apply to 
 ISPs, Anderson went to the library and researched the congressional reports 
 to find out what the law meant and whether Congress intended the law to apply 
 to email. (it did). Indeed, it is Anderson's analysis and fact-finding that 
 is disruptive of plans based on deception. Anderson has not engaged in any nefarious 
 behavior.
  The false claims made as a result of this malice and spite are not limited 
 to SORBS false claims of hijacked address space, even though even these particularly 
 incredible claims are repeated by IETF offical staff in their official IETF 
 capacities. A professional organization such as the ISOC and its IETF activity 
 has an obligation to act on true facts, not on a series of maliciously false 
 claims made out of spite. 


RFC 3005 "IETF Guidelines for Conduct"



>  1. IETF participants extend respect and courtesy to their colleagues at 
>  all times. 


We will see that this principle has not been enforced or even encouraged 
 with respect to Dean Anderson, Dan Bernstein, JFC Morfin, and others who have 
 systematically abused by the same small group of people, associated with and 
 confidants of Kessens/Crocker/Carpenter. We seek to apply the definition of 
 "integrity" given by the Oxford English Dictionary to the dealings 
 of these current and former IETF officials with Anderson.


RFC 3005 goes on to say 



> 
> 2. IETF participants develop and test ideas impartially, without finding 
>  fault with the colleague proposing the idea.
> 
> 
> We dispute ideas by using reasoned argument, rather than through intimidation 
>  or ad hominem attack.
> 
> 
> 


We will see that Anderson raises 3 separate issues, in which ISOC/IETF assets 
 are either improperly used or improperly prevented from use to inure substantial 
 benefits to private individuals and private organizations. The documents produced 
 by the ISOC are assets of the ISOC. A great deal of money is at stake in each 
 of these areas: 


1. Patent Policy Compliance. Patent holders stand to gain a great deal of 
 money if the IETF standardizes their technology. IETF Policy is to prefer 
 non-patented technology. Anderson has reported on instances where this policy 
 is not being followed.
2. Root DNS Operations. Root DNS operators are selling DNS Anycast services 
 to dozens of ISPs. Anderson and others have reported on the problems with 
 this technology. Information developed to date has substantiated Anderson's 
 claims. The IETF has an influential and proper role to play in development 
 of engineering standards for Root DNS server operators, including standards 
 that indicate this is unusable technology for Root DNS Operators.
3. SPAM Operations. Authors/backers of the SPAMOPS document, Crocker/Hutzler/AOL 
 stand to earn a great deal of money.


Rather than attempting to refute Anderson on these issues by reasoned argument, 
 Anderson has been threatened, harassed and intimidated. We will show that 
 this PR-Action carries out an improper threat against Anderson. This incitement 
 and intimidation is directed against valid civil disagreement and recently 
 against valid, well-substantiated questions of integrity.


 Anderson has not done anything by nefarious or abusive means to disrupt any 
 consensus. Rather, certain parties have attempted either to develop consensus 
 by or to prevent development of consensus by deception, false statements, ad 
 hominem attacks and threats on Anderson and others.In some cases these 
 threats have been executed.
 RFC 2026 Section 6.5.1 states that one can disagree with a working group 
 recommendation for 2 basic reasons:


 



> **(a)** his or her own **views have not been 
>  adequately considered** by the Working Group, or **(b)** the Working Group has made an **incorrect technical choice** which places the **quality and/or integrity** of the Working 
>  Group's product(s) in **significant jeopardy**. 


 In order to adequately consider views, those views must be put forward. If views 
 can't be put forward, they can't be adequately considered.
 Second is the quality and integrity of the Working Group's product. Persons 
 at the IETF, particularly Dave Crocker, Brian Carpenter, and David Kessens 
 as well as others have made false statements, associated with persons of questionable 
 honesty and integrity, and accepted false statements from such persons, thereby 
 placing the **quality and integrity** of the documents into serious 
 question. Rather than properly investigate serious charges of failures of 
 integrity, Crocker/Carpenter/Kessens et al have instead threatened Anderson 
 and have carried out threats. This had the effect of covering up and preventing 
 investigation of these charges, some of which have been substantiated in Court 
 of Law. IETF officials have engaged in professional dishonesty and unfair 
 dealing. These infractions are multiplied by the attempts of senior staff 
 at the IETF to cover up these integrity failures, and to silence Anderson 
 and others. Added to this scandal are 3 issues involving substantial sums 
 of money improperly inured to private individuals and organizations. This 
 seem contrary to the missions and principles of the IETF and ISOC, as well 
 being contrary to the affirmations made regarding the ISOC 503(c)(3) status. 
 These 3 issues are a substantial part of the IETF and ISOC activities.


### Casual Remarks vs Professional Honesty and Integrity


 Harald Alvestrand claims that he "can't toss of a casual remark without 
 getting virtually crucified" <http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg37984.html> Alvestrand seems here to be asserting that Anderson makes accusations of professional 
 dishonesty lightly. Simply considering the definition of "casual" 
 versus "professional" reveals that plainly "official remarks" 
 are distinguished from "casual remarks" by being held to a professional 
 standard of honesty and integrity. A casual remark is a made in an unofficial 
 capacity. There are many acts or omissions that constitute professional dishonesty, 
 and this section is not a taxomony. But one type of professional dishonesty 
 arises where reasonable people cannot differ. Such as for example, the number 
 of lawsuits filed against someone--that is a matter of public record and reasonable 
 people cannot differ in the number; certainly not without some sort of extenuating 
 circumstance supporting the alternate number.
  There is a great gulf between a mere differnce of opinion, and something 
 about which reasonable people cannot differ. Anderson has provided substantial 
 evidence of the validity of allegations when there have been made (see <http://www.av8.net/IETF-watch/Tytso.html> for an example). Remarks in official capacity are by definition not casual 
 remarks. T'so was acting in his official role as IETF Sergeant at Arms, and 
 thus his statements are held to a higher standard than "casual remarks". 
 In the case of the SpamOps integrity issue, the questioned source was brought 
 into Court of Law on three different occassions and found to have intentionally 
 made false statements including regarding open relays. And the Court held 
 that their statements weren't false in any way that could be a mere difference 
 of opinion. That fact makes the integrity of that source extremely questionable. 


Associated with this Court proven liar is the SORBS/ISC group, which is making 
 additional absurdly false claims about Av8 Internet's and The Open Group's 
 netblocks being hijacked. This is another fabrication about which reasonable 
 people cannot differ, that reflects on the integrity of the organizations 
 and their associates. As sources of data in the SpamOps document, they discredit 
 the integrity of the SpamOps document of which Mr. Crocker is an author. As 
 associates of Mr. Crocker, they potentially discredit Mr. Crocker. Crocker 
 has not taken any steps to disassociate himself with this group, or their 
 statements. A recent news article ("M.I.T. Dismisses a Researcher, Saying 
 He Fabricated Some Data" NY Times 10/28/05) stated "M.I.T. is taking 
 steps to retract the published paper and to make clear how the fraud occurred, 
 so as to preserve the reputations of Dr. Van Parijs's colleagues". 


It should be noted that the IETF officials are repeating false statements 
 from **the same group** in defamation of Anderson and Av8 Internet. 
 This is addressed in more detail below. The IETF is deeply involved with the 
 tainted group, and strenously maintains that association in spite of complaints. 
 This is not simple mistake, nor a casual remark, nor a casual "slip of 
 the tongue". Complaints have been made, but the IETF appears content 
 to publish the tainted draft, and has instead taken steps to silence the person 
 reporting the fabrications, making even more fabrications in the process of 
 doing so. RFCs are official publications of a professional society, and are 
 not merely casual remarks, any more than publication in other professional 
 journals are casual remarks. 



Specific PR Claims
------------------


 It is perhaps telling that the PR-Action notes afterward that:
 
>  While these messages alone might not suffice to justify action, 


 Even though the PR-Action admits they are insufficient to justify action, 
 it seems incumbent that we disprove each of the assertions. We begin with the 
 claims of disruption.
 1. ### Carpenter/Crocker/Kessens claim of disruption



>  "Mr Crocker alleged disruption of the IETF 
>  and DNSEXT lists and provided sample emails [4]."


Very few samples were provided, and of those, many were taken out of 
 context and all are refuted as evidence of disruption. Remember that RFC 
 3683 is meant to prevent disruption of IETF activities. Some nefarious 
 activity should be demonstrated. Instead, we will see IETF officials and 
 others who have abused their roles to disregard IETF and ISOC policies, 
 possibly for personal and financial gain and/or for the personal and financial 
 gain of their associates and confidants who may stand to gain, or for 
 the protection of certain "cherished notions" which benefit 
 private interests. We offer no specific motivations for these violations, 
 but instead assert they are violations of policy in spite of clear obligations 
 to serve the public trust. This PR-Action is travesty of the IETF and 
 ISOC policies that these same officials are supposed to uphold and implement. 


Lets consider the disruption asserted in footnote 4. Examination of these 
 examples reveals much:



	1. Claim of Offtopic posts
	 
	>  Dean continues to discuss topic that was 
	>  declared off-topic by working group chair:
	>   <http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg37550.html>
	> 
	> 
	> 
	
	
	 RFC 3005 specifies the IETF discussion list charter:
	 
	> "It also hosts discussions of IETF direction, policy, 
	>  meetings, and procedures. As this is the most general IETF mailing 
	>  list, considerable latitude is allowed." 
	
	
	 In fact, the message referenced in the PR Action is a well documented, 
	 substantiated, and **ON-TOPIC** complaint to the IETF main 
	 list that the DNSEXT WG is not in compliance with IETF IPR policy as 
	 described in RFC 3979. In the cited message Anderson writes:
	 
	> The statement of the WG chair (included below) is not consistent 
	>  with the IETF rules on IPR disclosure and consideration. 
	
	
	 This is plainly about IETF policy, and is within the charter of the 
	 IETF main list per RFC 3005. Anderson's message is relevant to the DNSEXT 
	 list, even though Kessens and the IETF Chair have been inconsistent 
	 on whether complaints should be sent to the WG lists. However, the entire 
	 discussion was only 9 total messages (number 8 was from the Chair, number 
	 9 was the complaint about the chair referenced above) and only 7 on 
	 the question of patents. Hardly anything for the IESG to complain about. Far short of a voluminous discussion in which progress cannot be made. 
	 Lets consider the substance of Anderson's message. We will see that 
	 Anderson's complaint is also well substantiated by facts sufficient 
	 to prove its claims:
	 Anderson's message clearly and validly objects that the WG Chair 
	 has acted improperly in asking that the WG cease discussion of IPR 
	 issues relating to drafts in the DNSEXT WG. There were only 7 (seven) 
	 total messages in the thread including 4 from Anderson prior to the 
	 WG Chair asked for the discussion to stop, citing 'rat-hole'. Sometimes 
	 discussions do go on for a hundred messages and it is plain that the 
	 discussion is not productive, and the group should move on to something 
	 else. However, this plainly wasn't the case. 
	
	
	Discussion of IPR encumbrance in WG technology is **ON-TOPIC** for every IETF working group, according to RFC 3979: 
	
	
	
	> 
	> 
	> ```
	> 6.2.  The Timing of Providing Disclosure
	>    Timely IPR disclosure is important because working groups need to
	>    have as much information as they can while they are evaluating
	>    alternative solutions.
	> ```
	> 
	> 
	
	
	Declaring discussion of IPR "off-topic" after only 7 messages is 
	 to deny valid discussion and is contrary to RFC3979, and so Anderson's 
	 message is a well-founded administrative complaint to the IETF main 
	 list. The IETF main list and the DNSEXT list are the proper forums 
	 for this complaint. Failure to implement the Official IETF policy 
	 contained in RFC 3979 inures substantial financial benefits to the 
	 patent holder(s). Anderson's message isn't nefariously disuptive of 
	 consensus. It may however disrupt the plans of the undisclosed patent 
	 holder to avoid compliance with IETF policy and procedures. 
	
	
	The charge is also literally false, since Anderson stopped discussing 
	 the specific patent issue, and complained to the IETF about the Chair's 
	 improper halting of discussion. Anderson has done nothing wrong in 
	 lodging that complaint. It is hard to imagine that this charge in 
	 the PR-Action is an innocent mis-characterization. Its quite a stretch 
	 to portray Anderson's message as disrupting consensus. The charge 
	 seems to be a fabrication in order to threaten and intimidate Anderson.
	2. Dave Crocker's message
	 
	> "Dave's response on part of Dean's mail:
	>   <http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg37554.html>
	> 
	> 
	> 
	
	
	Crocker's message is sent in response to the just cited message from 
	 Anderson. We just showed that Anderson's message was ON-TOPIC and 
	 substantiated. By contrast, Crocker's message has no relevance to 
	 the original message posted by Anderson. In fact, THIS message by 
	 Crocker is abusive, disparaging, and professionally dishonest. Crocker's 
	 message is disruptive--it distracts the IETF from addressing the serious 
	 issue of RFC3979 policy compliance. Crocker's message does not discuss 
	 the WG Patent Policy issue raised in Anderson's original message, 
	 but rather serves to disparage Anderson's involvement in Software 
	 Patent Policy Issues in his role as President of the League for Programming 
	 Freedom, and in other forums including the IETF. Anderson was elected 
	 to that position, and has persuaded people to reach rational compromise. 
	 Anderson's work in the LPF is a credit. More on this message in section's 
	 d. and e. following.
	3. Two messages by other people are strangely cited by the PR-Action 
	 as proof of Anderson's disruption:
	 
	>  Two messages by other participants who continue 
	>  to discuss Dean's point:
	>   <http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg37555.html>  
	> 
	> <http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg37557.html>
	> 
	> 
	> 
	
	
	These messages by other senders do not provide any evidence of disruption 
	 by Anderson. These messages serve only to make it possible for the 
	 PR-Action writers to take Crocker's and Bellovin's message out of 
	 context. Before we get into that, lets look at these two messages.
	
	
	The first message, by William Leibzon, supports Anderson's claims: 
	
	
	
	> What Dean wrote makes lots of sense to me, so I primarily 
	>  agree with him, except for his typical dnsext chair bashing - I'm 
	>  not sure there is really a case there that chair is blocking discussion. 
	>  I do agree that some list members there don't like the discussion 
	>  of patents 
	
	
	 Leibzon writes "dnsext chair bashing". Perhaps this is the "smoking 
	 gun" of disruption that Kessens and Crocker meant to show. But 
	 the term "bashing" means complaint. [The IESG and other groups 
	 regularly have "Agenda Bashing" as part of the agenda. This 
	 agenda item means it is time to air complaints about the agenda.] Of 
	 course, Leibzon's message is no evidence of disruption. In fact, Anderson 
	 has raised only two complaints about DNSEXT chairs. One complaint is 
	 the instant RFC3979 non-compliance complaint, and one should note that 
	 Leibzon indicates his agreement with Anderson on that particular complaint. 
	 The other complaint involved an ad hominem attack made by the (former) 
	 DNSEXT chair Randy Bush on June 7, 2003: "Complaint on Inappropriate 
	 behavior by the Namedroppers Administrator" <http://ops.ietf.org/lists/namedroppers/namedroppers.2003/msg01265.html> This complaint is well formed and substantiated. And Bush made other 
	 such attacks and in particularly engaged in repeated abuse of Dr. Dan 
	 Bernstein as documented at <http://cr.yp.to/djbdns/namedroppers.html>. 
	 The Bernstein episodes are a disgrace to the IETF. Anderson has called 
	 for an apology to Dr. Bernstein, but this very simple request for honest 
	 civil behavior from the IETF has been rebuffed.
	  The second message listed, while abusive, wasn't written by Anderson. 
	 The second message **offers no evidence that Anderson is disruptive.** This message was actually written by Steven Bellovin and will be addressed 
	 in more detail in another part of this response.
	
	
	It seems difficult to imagine that reasonable people would see these 
	 messages as evidence of nefarious disruption by Anderson. It seems 
	 these two messages are merely further proof of Kessens/Carpenter/Crocker's 
	 attempt to fabricate charges against Anderson.
	4. Claim of Personal Attack on Dave Crocker and Paul Vixie
	 
	> Personal attack on Dave Crocker (and attack 
	>  on Paul Vixie) by Dean. In addition his message does not substantiate 
	>  his earlier claims about IPR:
	>   <http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg37560.html>
	> 
	> 
	> 
	
	
	 This assertion of the PR-Action is a good example of the absurdity 
	 of Carpenter, Crocker, and Kessens' fatuous claims, and a rather transparent 
	 attempt to take a message out of context. Let's put it in context: 
	
	
	 Anderson's first message:   
	
	<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg37550.html>   
	
	 Anderson's message is a well-formed, well-founded complaint about 
	 failure of the DNSEXT chairs to comply with RFC3979, as analyzed in 
	 section a above  
	
	 Then Crocker's message:   
	
	<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg37554.html>   
	
	 Then we have Anderson's message which is listed in the complaint:   
	
	<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg37560.html> 
	
	
	As already noted, and plain when in context, Crocker's message has 
	 no relevance to the topic in first Anderson's message. It in merely 
	 an attack on Anderson. Crocker quotes a portion of parenthetical comment 
	 in Anderson's first message that introduces Anderson's credentials 
	 as a moderate on this issue: 
	
	
	
	> [Note: Not very long ago, I argued persuasively to a large 
	>  and broad movement within the IETF seeking to have the IETF adopt 
	>  an anti-patent position
	
	
	 To which Crocker attacks
	 
	>  i don't recall seeing evidence of the community's being 
	>  persuaded. 
	
	
	 This is simply mean-spirited, spiteful remark that has no relevance 
	 to the topic of Anderson's message. Its an attempt to attack Anderson's 
	 credibility. Anderson has argued many times for moderate patent positions. 
	 Anderson has also argued to give proper credit to people who hold opposing 
	 positions, such as when Hadmut Danisch was denied proper credit on his 
	 RMX work. See Danisch's complaint of August 30, 2004:   
	
	<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg30976.html>   
	
	 Even though Anderson disagreed with Danisch on the merit of the proposal, 
	 Anderson still sought to see that Danisch was properly credited: [this 
	 is a credit to Anderson's integrity.]  
	
	<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg30982.html>   
	
	 While Spam issues don't seem to interest Kessens, Crocker is deeply 
	 involved in the subject of spam. Yet, Crocker did not offer Danisch 
	 any support nor assistance, nor even any criticism of those denying 
	 credit to Danisch. Crocker was completely silent. See also Anderson's 
	 messages: See for example Anderson work to accomodate pro-patent and 
	 anti-patent group at the IETF:   
	
	 Eric Raymond: <http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg31545.html>   
	
	 Dean Anderson: <http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg31646.html>   
	
	 Dean Anderson: Accomodate pro-patent groups: <http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg31735.html> Or this next case where we find Anderson explaining what the Patent 
	 Office does right and wrong. While an extreme anti-patent view might 
	 argue that everything the Patent Office does is wrong, Anderson presents 
	 a moderate view:   
	
	<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg30302.html>
	Anderson has a long and extensive reputation as a moderate as the 
	 President of the LPF, and in other roles. Crocker's message disrupts 
	 the germane discussion of a genuine complaint about IETF IPR policy 
	 and procedural compliance. There is nothing in Crocker's message besides 
	 spite. Anderson rather civilly refutes the claim (if taken seriously) 
	 that Anderson has not been persuasive on software patent issues.
	
	
	 And furthermore, in actual fact, Anderson's claims about IPR policy 
	 and procedure are substantiated by RFC3979, as noted both in the original 
	 message by Anderson and the analysis in section a above. Crockers' 
	 message contains nothing of substance or relevance to that discussion. 
	 This is yet another example of the dishonesty contained in this PR-Action. 
	 The PR-Action description of this message is taken completely out 
	 of context. **It is Crocker's message that is a personal attack 
	 and meant to be disruptive.** 
	
	
	Anderson's comments are strong, but relevant to the attack made by 
	 Crocker. Importantly, Anderson's message refutes Crocker's attack. 
	 The record shows that Crocker made no effort to assist Danisch nor 
	 any effort to correct the improper citations in the draft. Yet Crocker 
	 is deeply involved in this draft and IETF spam issues in general. 
	 These dealings with Danisch reflect on the integrity and honesty of 
	 Crocker, Vixie, the draft authors, and certain officials of the IETF. 
	
	
	Regarding the assertion of a Personal Attack on Vixie. The cited 
	 message explains the plagarism complaint about Vixie in a footnote. 
	 The plagarism issue was substantiated at the time, and partially fixed. 
	 More is said about this below.
	5. Claim of Personal Attack on Steven Bellovin
	 
	> Dean launches a personal attack on Steven 
	>  Bellovin:
	>   <http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg37561.html>
	> 
	> 
	> 
	
	
	 This assertion of the PR-Action is a yet another monument to the 
	 absurdity of Crocker/Carpenter/Kessens' claims. Again, it is a transparent 
	 attempt to take a message out of context. Let's put it in context: 
	
	
	 Anderson's first message:  
	
	<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg37550.html>   
	
	 Anderson's message is a well-formed, well-founded complaint about 
	 failure of the DNSEXT chairs to comply with RFC3979.   
	
	 Then Crocker's message:  
	
	<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg37554.html>   
	
	 As shown above, Crocker's message is an ad hominem attack on Anderson.  
	
	 Then we have Bellovin's message:   
	
	<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg37557.html>   
	
	 Then we have Anderson's message which is listed in the complaint:   
	
	<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg37561.html>. 
	
	
	Anderson's message is strong, but not unnecessarily offensive. Bellovin 
	 has an opportunity to correct his mistake. In the proper context, 
	 Anderson's message seems pretty self explanatory, and it is plain 
	 that Bellovin's message is at minimum an ad hominem by being disparaging 
	 and irrelevant. Bellovin's message says Anderson is wrong, but there 
	 is no explanation. Bellovin says "he [Anderson] is in his [Bellovins]kill 
	 file", which is also irrelevant and disparaging, and therefore 
	 an ad hominem. Bellovin's message, in context, is about as plain an 
	 example of a nasty, spiteful, and inappropriate message as one will 
	 ever see. And it is not a casual remark, but an official remark. It 
	 is absurd that Kessens/Carpenter/Crocker would have the nerve to complain 
	 about its criticism. 
	
	
	The PR-Action asserts Anderson is "twisting Steven Bellovin's 
	 own words and smearing Steven Bellovin's reputation:" That is 
	 a very strong charge. Lets examine what it means to be professionally 
	 dishonest: 
	
	
	 *Making a false, professional report to a professional society 
	 on the contents of a document that one hasn't read is professionally 
	 dishonest.* 
	
	
	We can ask several questions to establish whether Bellovin's message 
	 is professionally dishonest: 
	
	
		1. Is is a professional report to a professional society? Or is it 
		 a casual remark?  
		
		 Bellovin says in his message:
		 
		> "Wearing my IPR WG hat and citing a product of 
		>  that WG..." 
		
		
		 Bellovin essentially dons his "professional robes" as 
		 it were. It is an official message, in Bellovin's official role 
		 as a Working Group Chair, as a member of a professional society. 
		 It would seem to be a Professional Act. Its not a casual remark.
		2. Was the subject document read by the person reporting on its contents?  
		
		 Bellovin says:
		 
		> "I didn't see the original note -- if it was from 
		>  whom I think it was, my killfile took care of that" 
		
		
		 Bellovin didn't read the note. The subject document wasn't read 
		 by Bellovin.
		3. Was the professional report to the professional society actually 
		 true?  
		
		 Bellovin writes in his message:
		 
		> "It wasn't -- he's wrong."
		
		
		 Bellovin is referring to Anderson when he says "he's wrong". 
		 Bellovin means "Anderson's wrong". Bellovin means to agree 
		 with Crocker's ad hominem (above). So Bellovin is just as wrong 
		 as Crocker was.
		 Later in the message Bellovin says: 
		
		
		
		> "but for a more authoritative description of the 
		>  situation, see the first two paragraphs of Section 2 of RFC 3669." 
		
		
		 Below are the first two paragraphs of RFC 3669:
		 
		> 
		>  This memo lays out a conceptual framework and rules of thumb 
		>  to assist working groups dealing with IPR issues. The goal is 
		>  to achieve a balance between the needs of IPR claimants and 
		>  the implementers of IETF standards which is appropriate to current 
		>  times. As part of trying to distill out principles for dealing 
		>  with IPR in IETF working groups, it provides case studies of 
		>  working group IPR treatment. In other words, it documents the 
		>  running code of the IETF process.
		> 
		> 
		> **This memo does not describe IPR procedures for document 
		>  authors or IPR claimants. Those are covered in two other memos, 
		>  on submission rights [5] and IPR in the IETF [6].** Rather, 
		>  this memo is for working groups that are trying to decide what 
		>  to do about technology contributions which have associated IPR 
		>  claims. 
		> 
		> 
		> 
		
		
		RFC 3669 does not document the procedures which Anderson's quotes 
		 in his complaint. Footnote 6 of RFC 3669 indicates that RFC 3668 
		 contains the procedures: 
		
		
		
		>  [6] Bradner, S., Ed., "Intellectual Property Rights 
		>  in IETF Technology", BCP 79, RFC 3668, February 2004. 
		
		
		 RFC3668 is is obsolete. It was superceded by RFC3979, which Anderson 
		 correctly quoted.
		 RFC 3669 does not describe the situation in Anderson's complaint, 
		 and RFC 3668 is obsoleced by RFC 3979, which Anderson cited in 
		 his original message. If Bellovin had actually read Anderson's 
		 message, and checked his facts, he would have known that Anderson 
		 was right. So Bellovin's report was wrong about that as well.
		4. Was it an honest mistake?  
		
		 Honest people apologize for honest mistakes. This is especially 
		 expected when the "mistake" is disparaging. An honest 
		 person apologizes and says something like: "I'm sorry. I was 
		 wrong". Bellovin did not apologize nor make any effort to correct 
		 his mistake, despite several opportunities to do so. Further, the 
		 spiteful elements of the message suggest the message wasn't a civil, 
		 honest message in conception. Bellovin's message doesn't seem to 
		 be an honest mistake.The analysis of Bellovin's statements reveals that Bellovin was professionally 
	 dishonest. And therefore, we can conclude that Anderson's criticism 
	 of Bellovin's professional honesty was correct and well-founded, and 
	 relevant to Bellovin's role as WG Chair in the IETF. So the charge 
	 of "twisting Steven Vellovin's own words and smearing Steven 
	 Bellovin's reputation" is incorrect. Anderson posted this message 
	 on the main IETF list, so Anderson's message was in the proper forum, 
	 and therefore ON-TOPIC. Anderson's message was not disruptive. 
	
	
	At this point, one might argue that Bellovin only meant to be disparaging, 
	 and didn't mean to dishonestly mislead the IETF. Indeed, Bellovin 
	 undoubtedly meant to be disparaging. Without question, Bellovin's 
	 dishonesty isn't on the same scale as, say, lying about 11 new stem 
	 cell lines. However, even so, Bellovin still used his official IETF 
	 position for disparagement and that is also official misconduct. Bellovin's 
	 misconduct is magnified and multiplied greatly by the attempts of 
	 senior IETF officials to cover up the misconduct, and attempt to use 
	 it to intimidate, threaten, and harass Anderson. Yet, that isn't all. 
	 Bellovin's action still the effect of preventing the proper application 
	 of IETF policy. Since September, 2005, the DNSEXT Working Group has 
	 not discussed the patent issues on the drafts identified in Anderson's 
	 complaint. Discussion of patent issues in compliance with IETF policy 
	 and working group procedures defined in RFC 3979 has been effectively 
	 suppressed through the misconduct of IETF officials. No IPR disclosure 
	 has yet (February 2006) been made with respect to the dnsext-ecc-key 
	 draft. 
	
	
	Anderson's message refutes Bellovin's claim that Anderson was wrong 
	 about IETF patent policy. So Anderson's message is relevant and ON-TOPIC. 
	 Likewise, Anderson's message about Bellovin's professional dishonesty 
	 is both substantiated, and relevant to the IETF, Anderson's message 
	 is therefore a valid complaint about bad behavior by Bellovin. Bellovin's 
	 behavior is serious official misconduct that violates numerous IETF 
	 and ISOC policies. Carpenter/Crocker/Kessen's charges in this matter 
	 amount to efforts to cover up Bellovin's misconduct and silence a 
	 valid complaint about non-compliance with IETF patent procedures and 
	 policies, which is even more serious official misconduct by even more 
	 senior IETF officials.
2. ### Offtopic Message Claim


This is really about discussing Root Server Operations on DNSOP. This is 
 the most frivolous and fatous of the claims in this PR-Action, since it 
 is explicitly refuted in the very first item of the DNSOP Working Group 
 Charter. 


 This is the principle conflict with Kessens. Carpenter/Crocker/Kessens 
 claims: 



> "Many of them are off topic for the IETF, 
>  since the IETF can only produce general technical recommendations for operators; 
>  it may not criticise individual operators or tell them how to conduct their 
>  business." 


 This statement is commonly true for most standards the IETF produces. But 
 it is not true for Root DNS Operations and is false on several counts, to 
 the point of being dishonestly misleading. In fact, the IETF can produce standards 
 that address problem practices by DNS Root Server operators, and such standards 
 can tell them how to correctly operate those root zone nameservers, particularly 
 on the subject of Root DNS Anycast.
 First, RFC 2870 explains the special relationship between Root DNS Server 
 Operators and the IETF. In particular section 1.1 says: 



>  1.1 The Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) 
>  has become responsible for the operation of the root servers. The ICANN 
>  has appointed a Root Server System Advisory Committee (RSSAC) to give technical 
>  and operational advice to the ICANN board. **The ICANN and the RSSAC 
>  look to the IETF to provide engineering standards**. 


 In order to "provide engineering standards", Root DNS Server operations have 
 to be discussed by the IETF, somehow. RFC 2870 is further clarified, and its 
 provisions given legal weight, by ICANN's Memorandum of Understanding (MoU). 
 The MoU is a formalized agreement between ICANN and Root DNS Server Operators, 
 as indicated by the model document found at  [http://www.icann.org/committees/dns-root/model-root-server-mou-21jan02.htm](https://www.icann.org/committees/dns-root/model-root-server-mou-21jan02.htm) The MoU is a definitive statement of responsibilities and obligations of ICANN 
 and the Root DNS Server Operators. Together, RFC 2870 and the MoU give substantial 
 influence to the IETF DNS-related working groups to specify engineering standards.
 Second, the discussions on DNSOP frequently lead to technical specifications 
 or standards for DNS operators. But engineering standards don't appear out 
 of thin air. Plainly, before enginering standards can be produced, a problem 
 must first be discussed. And so we arrive at the question of what IETF working 
 group is appropriate for discussion correct operation of root zone name 
 servers?. The DNSOP Working Group Charter provides the all-important clue. 
 The charter <http://www.ietf.org/html.charters/dnsop-charter.html> of the DNSOP Working Group specifies the purpose and topic of the DNSOP 
 Working Group. Its very first element specifies that Root DNS Server operation 
 is a topic of the DNSOP Working Group: 



> 
> "1. Define the processes by which Domain Name System (DNS) software 
>  may be **efficiently and correctly** administered, configured, **and operated** on Internet networks. This will **include 
>  root zone name servers,**"
> 
> 
>  [...]
>  2. Publish documents concerning DNSSEC operational procedures
> 
> 
> 


 So, the DNSOP Working Group is indeed the appropriate forum in which to 
 discuss the issue of DNS Root Anycast. Kessens is aware, or is expected 
 to be aware, of both documents. Kessens' assertion above is plainly, and *knowingly* wrong. There is no language in which Kessens assertion 
 could be true. In fact, the DNSOP Working Group **can** criticize 
 Root DNS operations, and it **can and has** produced specifications 
 that tell Root DNS Server Operators how to operate Root DNS Servers. And 
 ICANN has even **compelled** Root DNS Server Operators to follow 
 certain IETF standards. Not every member of the IETF or even the IESG members 
 would necessarilly be aware of the extent to which the IETF can influence 
 DNS Root Server Operations in the form of guidance and engineering standards. 
 Why would Kessens mislead them? In light of the actual facts, Kessens/Carpenter/Crocker's 
 statements are nothing less than untruthful in the most dishonest way possible. 
 And the PR-Action is not a casual remark. It should be held to a high standard.


### Detailed Analysis of "off-topic" claims in PR-Action:


 



> Dean Anderson attacks a well known root name server 
>  operator and talks about uncontrolled corruption in the IETF:
>   [http://darkwing.uoregon.edu/~llynch/dnsop/msg03551.html](http://darkwing.uoregon.edu/%7Ellynch/dnsop/msg03551.html) 
> 
> 
> 


 There are two issues here. The issue of corruption will be addressed at the 
 end of Section II. First we will address the assertion of "attacks [on] 
 a well known root name server operator". As we have already reviewed 
 the topic of the DNSOP Working Group, we can see that Anderson's message is 
 ON-TOPIC, footnoted, and technically relevant criticism of Root DNS Anycast 
 operation as it applies to DNSSEC.
 ### Pattern of Deception about Root DNS Anycast Stability


Anderson's analysis of Root DNS Anycast flaws has been substantiated by 
 data collection. Information on the flaws continues to be developed. The 
 history of the Anycast controversy is being documented at <http://www.av8.net/IETF-watch/DNSRootAnycast/History.html> We have developed information that shows that ISC and RIPE began selling 
 services in 2002 and that ISC and RIPE-associated persons have made exaggerated 
 and false claims about Anycast reliability. For example, we have discovered 
 that Verisign (J root operator) found evidence that supported Anderson's 
 claims, and recommended strongly in October 2004 that Anycast should not 
 be used for stateful transport. <http://www.nanog.org/mtg-0410/pdf/kosters.pdf>: 
 (emphasis added. Capitalization of "DO NOT RUN" in original) 



> 
> 
> ```
> + Expected to see a saw tooth distribution –
> instead have a noisy distribution in many cases
> + **Does not affect UDP**
> + **DO NOT RUN Anycast with Stateful Transport**
> ```
> 
> 


 Kosters et al also noted that "3.69% of all traffic over three days was 
 seen at two or more sites". This is a symptom load balancing described 
 by Anderson. At the November 2004 RSSAC Meeting, the TCP problem is noted 
 again: (emphasis added)
 
>  Anycast: - Paul Vixie   
> 
>  No new features, there is incremental growth with much the same architecture  
> 
>  Mark Kosters presents data from nanog on the "J" instance. Highights are: 
>  unexplained jitter  
> 
> **TCP concerns - does not seem to affect UDP**  
> 
>  Stay the course.   
> 
>  Mark Kosters: - still doing analysis to understand events  
> 
>  David Conrad: - any similar data from others?   
> 
>  Paul Vixie:- no - but may be due to the nature of the way we do anycast.   
> 
>  Lars Liman: - no - but we have not done the analysis.   
> 
> **Daniel Karrenberg: - our measurements for "K" do not see what "J" 
>  has found.** - may be where we are looking from?  
> 
>  Akira Kato: - M is still evolving - no data as of yet  
> 
>  Bill Manning: - v6 anycast is an open issue, per previous agenda item  
> 
> 


 Daniel Karrenberg is participating in the RSSAC meeting where **TCP 
 concerns** are again explicitly noted, and is explicitly noted that **does not seem to affect UDP**. Karrenberg does not reveal what 
 kind of testing he performs when he asserts that "K [does] not see what 
 "J" has found".
 In February 2005, Randy Bush (the same Bush who attacked Anderson and Bernstein) 
 disputed Verisign, [http://rip.psg.com/~randy/050223.anycast-apnic.pdf](http://rip.psg.com/%7Erandy/050223.anycast-apnic.pdf) claiming (incredibly) that (emphasis added) 



> "for almost a decade, there have been reports of successful 
>  delivery of **stateful** services over anycast"


 Bush does not cite any actual examples of stateful use. Searching for such 
 use revealed that Patrick Gilmore responded to a question about "Anycast 
 web servers" on Nanog in February 2004, but seems to have confused Anycast 
 with a clustering failover method. In May 2005, Gilmore says on Nanog that 
 Akamai doesn't do Http anycast. But Gilmore seems convinced it would work, 
 if they tried it. Many such assurances made on Nanog have turned out to be 
 baseless. For example, Nanog members made strong, confident assurances that 
 Cisco GSR routers were architecturally incapable of Per Packet Load Balancing(PPLB), 
 as described in RFC 1812 and Cisco documents. PPLB is a technology implementing 
 RFC 1812 behavior that affects stateful Anycast, and in particularly, makes 
 stateful Anycast globally unworkable. This cisco architecture claim was not 
 only false, but in the GSR E2 series cards, PPLB is "all interfaces or 
 none". It seems the "reports of successful delivery of stateful 
 [anycast] services" are greatly exaggerated. But, plainly, the controversy 
 is over **stateful vs stateless** Anycast. We note that RFC 1546 
 notes on page 5 that (emphasis added) "It is important to remember that 
 anycasting is a **stateless** service." We found also Karrenberg 
 (ISOC Trustee) reported information to RSSAC March 6, 2005: (emphasis added)
 
> Randy Bush was invited to workshop at APNIC, and he had some comments 
>  about anycast DNS. **Daniel Karrenberg has not been able to replicate 
>  what he has observed**, but it could be because of where on the net 
>  it is happening. It's really mostly about routing, not dns. Still get answers, 
>  but get them from rapidly changing instances. There may be more data presented 
>  at the CAIDA/WIDE workshop. 


In May 2005, Karrenberg makes a presentation to Nanog, citing DNSMON results. <http://www.nanog.org/mtg-0505/pdf/karrenberg.pdf> Karrenberg cites and links to Mark Koster's Verisign presentation, and Bush's 
 APNIC presentation. Remember that Kosters cited problems with **stateful** services, and explicity stated that the problem didn't affect UDP. This 
 was repeated at the RSSAC meeting. Yet Karrenberg apparently overlooks the 
 fact that DNSMON only tests UDP.Karrenberg does not mention that only UDP 
 testing has been performed in either the RSSAC meeting or the Nanog presentation, 
 in spite of the explicit assertions of stateful controversy in 3 prior reports. 
 Karrenberg specifically refutes that there is any problem whatsoever with 
 DNS Anycast. Karrenberg writes: (emphasis in original) 



> 
> This does **not** mean that anycast for DNS root service 
>  is unstable or broken.
> 
> 
> Please do not spread this false rumor!
> 
> 
> 


 "False rumor" is very strong and significant claim. Karrenberg makes 
 a very authoritative statement seemingly backed by research. But the presentation 
 makes no mention of whether stateful or stateless testing was performed, and 
 doesn't provide any specific description of what type of testing was performed. 
 The presentation doesn't include data sufficient to make the claim that DNS 
 root Anycast is safe. Nor is there sufficient data presented to prove that 
 stateful Anycast flaws are false rumors. If stateful testing was performed, 
 the presentation doesn't make it clear, and the most deferential statement 
 is that the conclusion is overstated and unsupported. Even deferrentially, 
 this is a significant criticism for a professional presentation.
 It appears from preliminary analysis of source code that the reason Karrenberg 
 can't see Verisign's J-root data is because Karrenberg's DNSMON doesn't 
 perform stateful tests. Anderson is awaiting follow-up information from 
 RIPE, and has asked Karrenberg for clarification. If it is the case that 
 DNSMON doesn't do stateful testing, then that fact would be very serious 
 omission that completely changes the import of Karrenbergs research to the 
 question of stateful anycast DNS root stability. More investigation is needed 
 to resolve this question and that investigation is proceeding.


In summary, here is a roadmap: 


	1. Kessens was formerly an employee of Karrenberg at RIPE. (see below)
	2. Along with ISC, RIPE is an early advocate of Anycast. <http://www.ripe.net/ripe/maillists/archives/dns-wg/2002/msg00004.html> Karrenberg notes the financial benefits in Section 4.
	3. July 7, 2004 Kessens reverses position to promote defamation of Anderson 
	 by ISC. (see below)
	4. September 30, 2004 John Brown attacks Anderson when Anderson raises 
	 Anycast concerns. Brown deceptively claims to have no association with 
	 ISC. Later, it is learned that Brown is a business partner of Suzanne 
	 Woolf. Brown also associated with RIPE, attending several RIPE meetings.(see 
	 below).
	5. October 2, 2004 Vixie makes a Personal Attack on Anderson. Wants Anycast 
	 discussion to stop.
	6. October 17, 2004 Kosters et al reports collecting actual data from Anycasted 
	 DNS Root Servers that indicates problems with stateful DNS Anycast.
	7. November 7, 2004 Karrenberg tells RSSAC that he doesn't see what Verisign 
	 sees.
	8. February 2005, Bush says stateful services delivered for years.
	9. May 2005 Karrenberg then jumps into this controversy about Stateful 
	 (TCP) vs Stateless (UDP) DNS. Makes claims of "false rumors", 
	 and asserts no stability issues with Anycast. Karrenberg does not present 
	 data that conclusive stateful testing was performed. Overstates his conclusions
	10. September 23, 2005 Kessens demands no discussion of Anycast problems 
	 (see below)
	11. September 23, 2005 Kessens threatens Anderson (see below)
	12. September 24, 2005 Kessens overlooks attacks on Anderson. (see below)
 Given the actions of Kessens and his associates on the subject, there is a 
 concerted effort to suppress discussion of the Anycast problem, and to personally 
 attack anyone who tries to discuss the subject. The records, analysis, and 
 data substantiate the legitimacy of Anderson's concerns about Root DNS Anycast 
 and illuminate the illegitimate means employed to suppress that valid technical 
 topic. Kessens misconduct is scrutinized in more detail.
 September 23, 2005 Anderson notes that DNSSEC deployment is threatened 
 by DNS Root Anycast. This is the cited off-topic message. As previously 
 shown, this message isn't off-topic.  

[http://darkwing.uoregon.edu/~llynch/dnsop/msg03551.html](http://darkwing.uoregon.edu/%7Ellynch/dnsop/msg03551.html)


September 23, 2005, Kessens stridently threatens Anderson with PR-Action 
 for talking about DNS Root Anycast problems.   

<http://www.av8.net/IETF-watch/People/DavidKessens/Kessens-warning.html>


 



> Message by David Kessens to Dean Anderson that 
>  warns him not to bring up any issues he apparently has with a well known 
>  root name server operator:
>  [http://darkwing.uoregon.edu/~llynch/dnsop/msg03552.html](http://darkwing.uoregon.edu/%7Ellynch/dnsop/msg03552.html)
> 
> 
> 


 As demonstrated at the beginning of this section, the discussion of DNS Root 
 Server operation is ON-TOPIC for the DNSOP working group. Kessens has no authority 
 to suppress discussion of topics that are specified in the DNSOP charter. 
 This is an abuse of his authority. This is not a casual remark. It is an official 
 message, and therefore should be held to a high standard.
 
> Dean's response in which he reaffirms his accusations 
>  towards the well known root name server operator:
>  [http://darkwing.uoregon.edu/~llynch/dnsop/msg03553.html](http://darkwing.uoregon.edu/%7Ellynch/dnsop/msg03553.html) 
> 
> 
> 


 Kessens' mis-characterizes Anderson's message. Nothing is "reaffirmed". Rather, 
 Anderson disputes that the subject is actually off-topic for this list. Anderson 
 plainly has a right to contest Kessens' especially absurd assertion, and did 
 so. There is nothing unreasonable in disputing Kessens assertion. Kessens' 
 assertion has been plainly shown to be wrong. Absurdly wrong, in fact. Dishonestly 
 wrong. But what is Kessens motivation for such mis-characterization in the 
 PR-Action? There is a pattern here.
 December 18, 2005, Anderson requests DNSMON Source code from RIPE. (private 
 message to Henk Uijterwaal)


January 17, 2006, RIPE provides the source code to Anderson. (private message 
 from Francesco Vivoli)


Let's look closer at Kessens message **threatenng to remove Anderson's 
 posting privileges**. The full text is at <http://www.av8.net/IETF-watch/People/DavidKessens/Kessens-warning.html> 



> 
> Dean,
> 
> 
> To avoid any misunderstandings: My message is an official warning to  
> 
>  you that I will propose to the IESG to remove your posting privileges  
> 
>  if I see one more abusive mail from you.
> 
> 
> Thanks,
> 
> 
> David Kessens
> 
> 
> 


 There is nothing abusive about Anderson's email. Kessens' message is plainly 
 intimidation in violation of IETF policy. Note that it is David Kessens who 
 made this threat. Yet recall that the PR-Action lists a different author: 
 Dave Crocker. Why would Kessens/Crocker/Carpenter mis-lead the IESG and the 
 IETF about who authored the PR-Action? The September 29, 2005 IESG teleconference 
 minutes indicate that Kessens added the Agenda item, but then notes that Kessens 
 asserts in the conference that it was Carpenter, not Kessens, who initiated 
 the action. Carpenter then says an A.D. is needed to "shepherd this", 
 and appoints Kessens. This presumably allows Kessens to attack Anderson during 
 the IESG discussion, while Anderson does not see and cannot respond to these 
 attacks. This is undue influence. This plainly doesn't qualify as 'Fair and 
 Open Process' <http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3935.txt>
 Further, since Anderson's messages cited above are ON-TOPIC, the Kessens 
 threat was unjustified, inappropriate, and a violation of Kessens' authority 
 under RFC 2418. It is threat to use undue influence to intimidate Anderson. 
 Why would Kessens conduct such an abuse? Only 2 hours later, after Anderson 
 brought a complaint to the IETF about Kessens' threat, Kessens began to 
 carry out his threat.   

<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg37865.html>   




Kessens ignores an ad hominem attack by Bert Hubert even though Kessens 
 is responsible A.D.:  

[http://darkwing.uoregon.edu/~llynch/dnsop/msg03556.html](http://darkwing.uoregon.edu/%7Ellynch/dnsop/msg03556.html)   

 [It might be well to note that "net-kooks" aren't generally well-documented, 
 supported by facts and, and substantiated by both theory and actual test 
 data that confirms theoretical analysis. This attack is very similar to 
 the attacks launched by John Brown, who was later found associated with 
 ISC and RIPE.] 


So, in spite of Kessens' strident claims to the contrary, in fact, Anderson's 
 messages are"**ON-TOPIC**" for the DNSOP list.Therefore, **Kessens 
 acted inappropriately** in demanding that the **ON-TOPIC** discussion end. 


**Kessens abused his privileges** as AD in first threatening, 
 and then filing, a PR-Action.. None of these are casual remarks. These should 
 be held to a high standard of professional honesty and integrity.


 The preceeding has established that Kessens/Crocker/Carpenter are unreasonably 
 wrong in fact about their claims of "off-topic" posting. But what sort of 
 wrong have they committed? These are official statements, not casual remarks. 
 Why does David Kessens so stridently make such an absurd claim several times? 
 Next, we consider whether this an honest mistake.


### Honest Mistake?


The absurdity of Kessens' claims suggests the answer is no. But lets consider 
 the alternatives.


 Is it possible that Kessens was ignorant of the DNSOP Working Group Charter? 
 Is it possible Kessens was ignorant of the of the ICANN MoU? Or is Kessens 
 deliberately trying to influence the discussion of important and relevant 
 aspects of DNS Root Server operations for the financial gain of his associates? 


 Let us first consider if Kessens could be ignorant of the relevant RFCs 
 and MoU: Kessens was [employed 
 by RIPE](http://www.ripe.net/ripe/maillists/archives/ripe-org-closed/1994/msg00000.html), as a "junior administrative staff member" from 1994 for at 
 least several years. RIPE is a Root DNS Server Operator. Kessens has maintained 
 his participation in RIPE, and DNS Root Server Operations. For example, 
 in 2002, Kessens advocated to RIPE that RIR's "walk away" from ICANN during 
 discussion of ICANN reform <http://www.ripe.de/ripe/maillists/archives/lir-wg/2002/msg00034.html> It is therefore fair to conclude that Kessens is or ought to be aware of 
 the DNSOP charter and is or ought to be aware of the ICANN MoU. So Kessens 
 is aware that discussion of Root DNS Server operations practice and DNSSEC 
 are ;explicitly ON-TOPIC to the DNSOP Working Group and list. Further, Kessens 
 continued this absurd claim even after his attention was explicitly directed 
 to the DNSOP charter. Therefore, ignorance is not a defense that Kessens 
 can use. Yet Kessens makes repeated and strident claims contrary to the 
 DNSOP Charter. More illumination is found in Kessens' confidants and associates: 


	1. Suzanne Woolf of ISC  
	
	 Kessens and Woolf attended the University of Southern California Information 
	 Sciences Institute. Both are listed as alumni of the Computer Networks 
	 Division. <http://www.isi.edu/div7/alumni.htm> Woolf is the program manager at ISC promoting DNS Root Anycast. In 2003, 
	 she gave a presentation entitled "BGP4 Anycast for Root Name Service 
	 -- Threat or Menace?".  
	
	 Woolf is also the RSSAC liason to the ICANN board. The RSSAC is described 
	 in the ICANN bylaws: [http://www.icann.org/general/bylaws.htm#XI-2.3](https://www.icann.org/general/bylaws.htm#XI-2.3) Woolf has a lot at stake in Root DNS Anycast, and as its most active promoter, 
	 significant interest in covering up any defects or flaws in Root DNS Anycast.
	2. John Brown, of Chagres Technologies, Inc.  
	
	 Brown founded Chagres Technologies with Suzanne Woolf. Brown and Woolf 
	 worked together at ICANN. Brown also attends RIPE meetings with Kessens 
	 and Karrenberg. Brown is found advocating ISC: <http://museum.media.org/invisible.net/dot/comments/43.html> Brown's involvement in the IETF is slight, and frequently involves ad 
	 hominems on those who oppose ISC, such as Anderson and Bernstein. Brown's 
	 other frequent topic is Root DNS Anycast.. Incidentally, during the entire 
	 year of 2002, Brown sent only 6 (six) messages to the DNSEXT WG: 2 messages 
	 attacked Dr. Bernstein. 3 messages advocated Anycast. Between 2002 and 
	 2006, Brown posted a grand total of 8 (eight) messages to DNSOP: 3 messages 
	 involved Anycast, 4 involved an ad hominem attack on Anderson. This is 
	 an abuse rate of 50%. In September, 2004, Brown posted a message to the 
	 DNSOP list containing an ad hominem attack on Anderson regarding Root 
	 DNS Anycast.   
	
	[http://darkwing.uoregon.edu/~llynch/dnsop/msg03087.html](http://darkwing.uoregon.edu/%7Ellynch/dnsop/msg03087.html)   
	
	 A Complaint was made:  
	
	[http://darkwing.uoregon.edu/~llynch/dnsop/msg03092.html](http://darkwing.uoregon.edu/%7Ellynch/dnsop/msg03092.html)
	 Although responsible, Kessens ignored this complaint. 
	
	
	Brown also made the point of describing himself as a disinterested 
	 person. Brown wrote: 
	
	
	
	> I felt it important to reply as someone thats NOT in any shape 
	>  fashion or form, ISC or its staff. I am somone that has done the engineering 
	>  work to make a different letter work better via Anycast. Which letter, 
	>  well that doesn't matter. 
	
	
	 This was another deception. It turned out that Brown was closely associated 
	 with Woolf. Woolf was a business partner in Brown's company Chagres Technologies 
	 and Brown worked with Woolf on the L root server. <http://web.archive.org/web/20040806183946/http://www.chagres.nl/about.html> It seems that Woolf/ISC/RIPE orchestrates the attacks by both Brown and 
 Kessens. Recall that Kessens very first response to Anderson's complaint 
 about email abuse by WG co-chair Rob Austein was positive. This first postive 
 reaction was then reversed by Kessens. Almost like Kessens was caught "off 
 guard of ISC/RIPE ". **All subsequent messages** by Kessens 
 involving Anderson have been hostile to Anderson. Austein is employeed by 
 ISC, along with Woolf.


Simultaneously, ISC has been advocating that DNS Root Anycast is both safe 
 and uncontroversial. ISC is selling DNS Root Anycast services to ISPs. RIPE 
 is also making such sales.Brown seems to be looking for work. Kessens is 
 joined by RIPE and ISC associates and confidants in making false statements 
 to protect this unsafe practice, and to prevent criticism of this practice. 
 The coordination of attacks seems to preclude an honest mistake.
### Corruption Allegations


The "talk" about corruption at the IETF is only disturbing because 
 it is substantiated and because it is uncontrolled, even after it has been 
 exposed. To be precise, lets review some defintions:


**Definitions -- Black's Law Dictionary** 



Charitable Trust.
One in which property held by a trustee must be used for charitable purposes 
 (advancement of health, religion, etc.). **Fiduciary relationship 
 with respect to property** arising as a result of a manifestation 
 of an intention to create it, and **subjecting the person** by whom the property is held to **equitable duties** to deal 
 with the property for a **charitable purpose**.
Integrity.
As used in statutes prescribing the qualifications of public officers, 
 trustees, etc., this term means soundness or moral principle and character, 
 as **shown by one person dealing with others** in the making 
 and performance of contracts, and **fidelity and honesty in the discharge 
 of trusts**; it is snyonymous with "**probity,**" 
 "**honesty,**" and "**uprightness.**"
Fiduciary duty
A **duty to act for someone else's benefit**, while **subordinating 
 one's personal interests** to that of the other person. It is the 
 highest standard of duty implied by law (e.g. trustee, guardian).
Ficticious
Founded on a fiction; having the character of a fiction; pretended; counterfeit; 
 Feigned, imaginay, not real, false, not genuine, nonexistant. **Arbitrarilly 
 invented and set up, to accomplish an ulterior object.**
Harassment
... "a **course of conduct** directed at a specific 
 person that causes **substantial emotional distress** in such 
 person and **serves no legitimate purpose**" ... 

**Definitions -- Oxford English Dictionary** 



Integrity
1. The condition of having no part or element taken away or wanting; undivided 
 or unbroken state; material wholeness, completeness, entirety.   

 2. The condition of not being marred or violated; unimparired or **uncorrupted 
 condition**; original perfect state; soundness.   

 3. In a moral sense. a. Unimpaired moral state; freedom from moral corruption; 
 innocence, sinlessness; b. Soundness of moral principle; the character of 
 uncorrupted virtue, **esp. in relation to truth and fair dealing**; 
 uprightness, honesty, sincerity. 

We recall that the IETF is an activity of the ISOC, and that the ISOC is 
 incorporated as a 503(c)(3) Tax Exempt Charitable Organization, with the purpose 
 that it "shall be operated exclusively for educational, charitable and 
 scientific purposes". 


The preceeding portions of this document have provided substantial evidence 
 of a recent pattern involving a failure of integrity including professional 
 dishonesty and a lack of fair dealing that indicates corruption of integrity. 
 However there are some additional incidents that serve to illustrate that 
 this activity dates back several years. This is unfortunately not an exhaustive 
 list. 


### DOS Attack on Dr. Bernstein


One particularly offensive incident involves Dan Bernstein. Dr. Bernstein 
 is a well respected professor in the Mathematics Department at the University 
 of Illinois at Chicago. Dr. Bernstein wrote a widely used DNS Nameserver implementation 
 and is a prolific author of other software, and is otherwise a well respected 
 academic and professional contributor. Yet he was attacked and abused by Paul 
 Vixie on numerous occasions, and was abused by Randy Bush when Bush was in 
 the IESG and system administrator of the DNSEXT WG mailing list. Bernstein 
 documents this series of incidents at <http://cr.yp.to/djbdns/namedroppers.html>. 


Bernstein describes a number of abuses. Particularly disturbing are incidents 
 that occurred in 2002. Dr. Bernstein uses a non-public subscription address 
 that assists spam filtering and prevents forged unsubscriptions. Many email 
 list software, including the one used by Bush, permit multiple post addresses. 
 Dr. Bernsteins messages to the DNSEXT list are prefaced with this header: 



> 
> 
> ```
> [ post by non-subscriber.  with the massive amount of spam, it is easy to
>   miss and therefore delete mis-posts.  your subscription address is
>   54830374684695-namedroppers@sublist.cr.yp.to, please post from it or
>   fix subscription your subscription address! ]
> 
> ```
> 
> <http://ops.ietf.org/lists/namedroppers/namedroppers.2002/msg01971.html> 


 Other non-subscriber messages to the DNSEXT list are prefaced with this header:
 
> 
> 
> ```
> [ post by non-subscriber.  with the massive amount of spam, it is easy to
>   miss and therefore delete mis-posts.  so fix subscription addresses! ]
> 
> ```
> 
> <http://ops.ietf.org/lists/namedroppers/namedroppers.2002/msg01966.html> 


By publishing the private subscription address, Bush makes it possible for 
 Bernstein to be unsubsribed through a forged unsubscription, a known flaw 
 to which the PSG software is vulnerable, if the private subscription address 
 is known. Bush subsequently leaves the IESG and WG Chair positions without 
 explanation.


Anderson mistakenly thought that Bush was removed as punishment. Harald Alvestrand, 
 acting as IETF Chair, is almost proud that no official punishment or criticism 
 is made of Randy Bush. Alvestrand writes in relation to a complaint made by 
 Anderson: <http://www.av8.net/IETF-watch/People/HaraldAlvestrand/RandyBush-no-punishment.html>



> I am sorry, but if you think your complaints had one iota of effect 
>  on  
> 
>  Randy Bush's decision to leave the IESG, I think you are dreaming.


This also just a small sample of abuse by IETF officials against Dan Bernstein, 
 and represents a failure of professional honesty and and indicates corruption 
 of integrity .


### Plagarism


After a complaint to the IESG, the citations were mostly but not completely 
 fixed. However, it took a complaint to the IESG to achieve this resolution. 
 The draft authors, the Working Group chair, and the A.D. failed to address 
 the problem. This indicates an atmosphere where professional dishonesty is 
 accepted and a lack of integrity is inconsequential. A draft is an official 
 document. It is not a casual remark. It should be held to a high standard 
 of honesty and integrity. 


August 30, 2004 Hadmut Danisch: Plagarism complaint  

<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg30976.html>


August 30, 2004 Ted Hardie: Defends Vixie attribution Says earliest known 
 work is Vixie. Hardie subsequently goes to work for Nominum, a company associated 
 with Vixie. Hardie is the Area Director responsible for the draft.   

<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg30979.html>


August 30, 2004 Vixie: No complaints about SPF attribution   

<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg30980.html>


August 30, 2004 Anderson: Analyzes authorship claims by Vixie Record shows 
 that Green's submission pre-dates Vixie's submission.   

<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg30991.html>


August 30, 2004 Nick Carter: Agrees with Anderson. Says Vixie is not contributor 
 to SPF   

<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg30995.html>


August 31, 2004 Vixie: personal attack on Anderson and Bernstein Vixie supplies 
 original message from Jim Miller. Message shows that Vixie did not write draft, 
 but **copied it from Miller**. Vixie credits Miller for idea, 
 but Miller submits entire manuscript that Vixie merely edits and then calls 
 his own. If this were submitted as a University writing project, it would 
 probably be grounds for expulsion. Vixie says idea did not come from Green, 
 and "apologizes for the confusion". [in fact, it was said that Green's 
 submission was prior to Vixie's.]   

<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg31005.html>


August 31, 2004 Vixie: says who he would trust about what can be done with 
 DNS and SMTP This is seems to be an attack on Anderson and Carter.   

<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg31006.html>


September 1, 2004 Anderson: Jim Miller not Vixie orgination   

<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg31014.html>


September 1, 2004 Alvestrand: Plagarism of Hadmut Danish in SPF draft   

<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg31018.html>


Follow up: Green and Danisch were added to citations in the draft. But **Miller 
 is still not cited** in <http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-lyon-senderid-core-01.txt>. 
 Vixie is still cited as an originator instead of Miller. Ted Hardie is the 
 Shepherding A.D. for this draft.


### False Claims of Personal Attacks


Definition of "Ad Hominem" 


"Ad Hominem" literally means "against the person". It 
 is not acceptable in civil debate because it is a usually a fallacy. The fallacy 
 is that some characteristic of the person has some logical relevance to the 
 issue being debated. To qualify as an "ad hominem", two conditions 
 are necessary:

1. It must be personal.
2. It must be irrelevant.

What isn't a personal attack:

* Valid criticism is not a personal attack.
* Valid complaint is not a personal attack.

 <http://www.cafax.se/dnsop/maillist/2003-04/msg00002.html> Rob Austein claims ad homina. Falsely mis-characterizes Andersons contributions. 
 In the thread, Anderson points out flaws in assertions. In response to Anderson's 
 criticism, advocates suggest trivial word substiutions and redefinitions which 
 do not overcome the original flaws. Anderson points this out, and patiently 
 analyzes every proposed change. Anderson does not repeat anything beyond that 
 necessary to show the new proposal is insufficiently changed.


<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg00174.html> Alvestrand objects to description of Personal Attack as "infantile", 
 etc. Warns Anderson, but doesn't address abuse by Vixie.


### Unfair Dealing


One of the most frequent abusers is Paul Vixie. A reveiw of email to the 
 IETF main list revealed 14 attacks out of 147 messages total between March 
 27, 2003 and September 1, 2005 sent to the IETF main list. That's almost 10% 
 of Vixies' messages are personal attacks. Vixie was not chastised once during 
 this time.


<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg25762.html> Vixie says response is to an "obvious troll from obvious spammer". 
 Vixie present no evidence that either is true. Atkeilsky has merely (politely) 
 disputed Vixie's assertions.   

<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg25808.html> Asserts that "troll" is appropriate because Atkeilsky disagrees 
 with Vixie.   

<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg25874.html> IETF made up of "self-selected rabble and trolls"   

<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg26448.html> Personal Attack on Phillip Hallam-Baker   

<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg27182.html> Personal Attack on Dr. Dan Bernstein   

<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg28505.html> Personal Attack on JFC Morfin   

<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg00147.html> Personal Attack on Anderson   

<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg30163.html> Another Personal Attack on Anderson   

<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg00191.html> Another Person Attack on JFC Morfin   

<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg00231.html> Yet another unprofessional message   

<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg30606.html> Calls Av8 Internet "dv8", talks about SORBS. Says there are "irregularities 
 in trust record". Says Av8 won't sue.   

<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg31005.html> Personal Attack on Anderson and Bernstein   

<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg31006.html> Personal Attack on Anderson and Carter. Disparages their advice on SMTP and 
 DNS  

<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg31535.html> Another Personal Attack on Anderson. Wants to stop discussion of DNS Root 
 Anycast.   




Vixie is not the only abuser. There are more. This dishonestly unfair dealing 
 that has been noticed by others:  

<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg35993.html>   



80. ### External Disputes



> We wish to make it clear that quarrels and disagreements 
>  between software suppliers, operators and the like have no place in the 
>  IETF and must be discussed and settled elsewhere. 


 While this seems like a reasonable statement, it is a rather disingenous 
 statement of the actual facts. Suppose the Olympic Committee had said "The 
 dealings of the French Judge are external." This wouldn't be credible. 
 Similarly, there is absolutely no credibility to this claim because the 
 abuse involves the violation of IETF rules on IETF lists by IETF participants 
 and by IETF Officials. The assertion of "external disputes" is 
 used as an excuse not to enforce RFC 3005, RFC 2026, and RFC 2418 and not 
 to address disparagement and defamation of Anderson and others by particpants 
 according to the policies of the IETF specified in RFC 3005 et al. It is 
 also used as an excuse not to address disparagement and defamation of Anderson 
 by IETF Officials, acting in their official IETF capacities. While perhaps 
 some of the underlying issues are external to the IETF, many of the issues 
 (Anycast DNS Root Server Operation, DNSEXT IPR disclosure, SpamOps draft) 
 are absolutely not external to the IETF. The defamation and disparagement 
 involves and is conducted by IETF officials, and takes place on IETF lists, 
 in violation of IETF policies. Plainly, as this PR-Action demonstrates, 
 the IETF is possessed of the means necessary to prevent abuse of participants 
 by other participants according to IETF policy, and the IETF is also easily 
 able to prevent defamation by IETF officials in their Offical IETF capacities. No effort whatsoever has been made by the IETF to prevent damage to Anderson 
 and Av8 Internet.
 We've so far seen that



	* Disparagement by Vixie OK
	* More disparagement by Vixie OK
	* Attacks and abuse of Dr. Bernstein OK
	* Official, yet false, defamatory statements by WG Chair Austein OK 
	 (see below)
	* Disparagement by Crocker OK
	* Disparagement by Bellovin OK
### Defamation by WG Chair Austein et al


The "external disputes" claim is strangely out of place in 
 a PR-Action, and is yet another example of the absurdity with which Kessens 
 and Crocker (and their associates) justify their own abuse of the IETF 
 for the advancement of private interests. The IETF is being used by ISC 
 et al for disparagement.


March 28, 2003 Alan Brown (the 3 time court-proven liar) says Anderson Stole IP blocks.   

<http://www.iadl.org/ab/AB-defame0.html> 


March 31, 2003 DNSOP WG Chair Rob Austein makes false charge of ad hominem: 
 Austein is later employed by ISC/Vixie. It is unclear when Austein began 
 employment with ISC. <http://www.cafax.se/dnsop/maillist/2003-04/msg00002.html>


May 21, 2003 SORBS/ISC repeats the claim: 



> > The full listing is:  
> 
>  >  
> 
>  > Netblock 130.105.0.0 / 16  
> 
>  > Summary **The OSF doesn't exist anymore, making this hijacked**.  
> 
>  > Announced By [1784] Global NAPs Networks  
> 
>  > Entry Created Wed May 21 11:51:29 2003 AEST  
> 
>  > Record Updated Wed May 21 11:52:38 2003 AEST  
> 
>  > Currently active and flagged to be published in DNS  
> 
>  > **Spam has not been received from this netblock.** 


 SORBS is supported by ISC/Vixie et al, which provides hosting and nameservice.
 
> 
> 
> ```
> www.sorbs.net.          3600    IN      A       204.152.186.189
> www.sorbs.net.          3600    IN      A       203.15.51.39
> whois 204.152.186.189@whois.arin.net
> [whois.arin.net]
> OrgName:    Internet Systems Consortium, Inc.
> OrgID:      ISC-94
> 
> ```
> 
> 


June 6, 2003, Paul Vixie starts trying to defame Av8 Internet to its 
 customers. A complaint is made to the Namedroppers administrator. WG Chair 
 Randy Bush responds with and ad hominem against Anderson. <http://ops.ietf.org/lists/namedroppers/namedroppers.2003/msg01246.html>


May 10, 2004 A Complaint is made about the DNSOP WG Chair Rob Austein. 
 Austein has changed his IETF contact address so that it sends email that 
 says IP address blocks belonging to Av8 Internet and the Open Software 
 Foundation is hijacked. <http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg00053.html>


 June 18, 2004 Kessens at first supports the use of IETF-administered 
 email addresses to prevent email abuse: <http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg30566.html> 


Then, Kessens apparently changes his mind. Kessens dissembles, says Anderson/Av8 
 is not blocked from contacting Austein using email address on the DNSOP 
 page. This is an entirely dishonest statement. Austein is still blocking 
 Av8.  

<http://www.av8.net/IETF-watch/People/DavidKessens/Kessens-on-block.html> 


Anderson patiently corrects Kessens.  

<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg30698.html> 


Kessens again says there is contact address for Austein that doesn't 
 block Av8 Internet on the DNSOP WG page. In fact the page lsts sra@isc.org, 
 which blocks Av8 Internet. In fact, no change had taken place, either 
 on the DNSOP WG page, or otherwise. Kessens assertion is blatantly false: 
 Anderson has provided email bounces, ISC employee Joe Abley acknowldged 
 the bounces and implied they served no purpose. While Kessens mistake 
 might be merely corrected if made in a casual remark, Kessens is acting 
 in his role as A.D. responding to a compliant. Kessens has a professional 
 responsiblity to make a diligent effort to find out if mail is being rejected. 
 Kessens plainly has made no such effort, and doesn't cite any evidence 
 for his mistaken belief..  

<http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg30699.html> 


Rob Austein in his role as IETF WG Chair still tells Av8 Internet Customers 
 falsely that Av8 Internet has stolen IP Address space. This is a provably 
 false assertion in IETF role which the IETF and the ISOC have the ability 
 to prevent through several means, including simply by requiring Mr. Austein 
 to stop making this claim on his official IETF email accounts. Using the 
 IETF role adds credibility to the false claims, and increases the damage 
 to Anderson and Av8 Internet. Customers of Av8 Internet who receive such 
 claims from IETF officials are much more likely to accept them as true.


The ISOC and IETF Activity possess the means to easilly prevent this 
 damaging behavior and can disassociate itself from these statements if 
 it were to choose to do so. While Mr. Kessens seemed at first to take 
 a positive view of a reasonable solution to serious and well-founded complaint, 
 Mr. Kessens' quickly reversed himself, began to dissemble, and from thereon 
 was hostile to Mr. Anderson and Av8 Internet. The IETF and the ISOC have 
 a legal duty to protect Dean Anderson and Av8 Internet from harm by IETF 
 staff, and a duty to make true statements and to disassociate itself from 
 false statements 


Austein's statements are made on behalf of the IETF, in his official 
 duties as WG co-chair. The officials of the ISOC IETF activity has previously 
 been made aware of these false claims by its WG co-chair, yet the IETF 
 refuses to cease and desist or dissociate itself from these false statements. 
 Senior IETF officials responsible for halting this behavior have exhibited 
 hostility and malice towards Anderson and Av8 Internet multiplying the 
 distress and damages suffered as a result.


Dean Anderson and Av8 Internet now place the demand to halt this defamatory 
 activity to stop before the IAB. We believe that the following summary 
 of facts is true and easilly verified: 



	1. Any person can obtain an Av8 Internet email account.
	2. Such a customer can go to the IETF web site, select the DNSOP WG page
	3. Click on the DNSOP WG Chair Rob Austein link to send email to the 
	 IETF DNSOP WG Chair.
	4. They will get a message back from the IETF DNSOP WG Chair (Mr. Austein) 
	 that the message sent to the IETF WG Chair was rejected because Av8 
	 Internet's IP Addresses are hijacked. **This is a provably false 
	 fact made by Mr. Austein on behalf of the IETF, in the course of IETF 
	 business**
	5. Dean Anderson and Av8 Internet has become aware of this defamation 
	 and have made complaint to the supervisors of Mr. Austein at the IETF.
	6. The IETF activity of the ISOC has the means to prevent this defamation, 
	 as first noted by Mr. Kessens when the complaint came to him as the 
	 AD in Charge of Mr. Austein.
	7. Mr.Kessens, in his official role as Area Director for the IETF Operations 
	 Area, has shown hostility on several occasions towards Mr. Anderson 
	 and Av8 Internet, and this hostility is evidence of malice by the ISOC 
	 in defamation towards Dean Anderson and Av8 Internet.
	8. We believe that Mr. Austein has offices or residency in the State 
	 of Massachussetts, so therefore the ISOC conducts at least part of its 
	 business in Massachussetts, and that both Austein and ISOC are therefore 
	 subject to the laws of the State of Massachussetts.
81. ### Offensiveness claim



> Mr Anderson has repeatedly posted, before and 
>  since, on these and other IETF lists, messages that refer offensively 
>  to individuals or organizations [1]. 


RFC 3683 does not refer to "Offensiveness". Individuals differ on what 
 is offensive. Many would find much of the behavior by Mr. Kessens, Mr. 
 Crocker, Mr. Carpenter and their associates to be offensive. Many would 
 find association with court-proven liars to be offensive. Many find plagarism 
 offensive. Many find professional dishonesty offensive. However, there 
 seems to be no procedure in the IETF to remove participants for such behavior. 
 Further, perception of offensive tone over email is frequently wrong. 
 RFC3683 does not provide for consideration . This is a technical point, 
 as there is no basis for considering Anderson's messages offensive. 


**Offensive Behavior**
Is it offensive to complain about someone else's bad behavior?


Is it offensive to report relevant facts established by a court?


IETF officials have duties and obligations, the failure of which is grounds 
 for their removal. The ISOC ultimately controls the $2million dollar budget 
 of the IETF. However, neither facts, nor procedures, nor rules, nor duties 
 have prevented Kessens, Crocker, Carpenter et al from just making things 
 up.


### Response to claims in footnote 1 of the PR Action:



	1. Assertion of Attack on Bill Strahm, complaint of defamatory statements 
	 by Rob Austein  
	
	
	> "Personal attack on Bill Strahm and 
	>  alleges that Rob Austein defames av8 Internet:
	>  <http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg37889.html>"
	> 
	> 
	> 
	
	
	 It seems we have already substantiated the allegation that Austein defames 
	 Av8 Internet. It is Kessens responsiblity and obligation to investigate allegations 
	 of wrongdoing by his subordinate WG chairs. It is up to Kessens to ensure 
	 that the integrity of the IETF and ISOC is advanced and not damaged. 
	 Rather than fullfill that obligation, Kessen merely complains that such 
	 complaints about bad bahaviors by WG Chairs are somehow inappropriate. 
	 Strahm is not directly under Kessens authority as Area Director.
	  Stephen Sprunk supports the notion of @ietf.org email addresses <http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg30597.html> 
	
	
	### IETF Policy: WG Chairs have to read offlist email
	
	
	RFC 2026 Section 6.5.1 says
	
	
	
	>  "A person who disagrees with a Working Group recommendation 
	>  shall always **first discuss the matter with the Working Group's 
	>  chair(s)**, who may involve other members of the Working Group 
	>  (or the Working Group as a whole) in the discussion." 
	
	
	Each Working Group page identifies the official off-list email addresses 
	 for the purpose of contacting the WG Chairs under RFC 2026 section 
	 6.5.1. 
	
	
		1. Austein has to follow this policy. Austein's failure to follow 
		 this policy is purely defamatory, and has not bonafide anti-spam 
		 concern.
		2. Strahm claims in defense of Austein that a WG Chair doesn't have 
		 to follow any rules on email. This message was quoted by Anderson. 
		 Strahm's position is contrary to RFC2026 Section 6.5.1, and RFC 
		 2418 Section 6.1. Plainly, one cannot have an "open and fair 
		 process" if WG chairs are free to reject email from people 
		 they don't like.**Anderson's message is a valid complaint 
		 about Strahm's performance** .
		3. Austein in his role as DNSEXT WG Chair falsely claims that Av8 
		 Internet has stolen IP Address Space. Messages from Austein in his 
		 official IETF mail account, on IETF business have been shown to 
		 the IETF management. These messages show intentionally, knowingly 
		 willfully false claims about Av8 Internet having hijacked IP address 
		 space. This claim is defamatory, and the IETF has repeatedly been 
		 made aware of the issue through a complaint process, and has been 
		 asked to cease and desist. Kessens' has ignored this complaint, 
		 and instead has falsely asserted that Austein isn't blocking Av8 
		 Internet. This defamation and disparagement has caused harm to Anderson 
		 and Av8 Internet. The IETF officials and the ISOC bear legal responsibility 
		 is responsible for this damage.
		4. Strahm's involvement with abuse of Dr. Bernstein
	 Anderson's message is "**ON-TOPIC**" for the IETF main 
	 list.
	 Strahm's assertion that he doesn't have to read email is a violation 
	 of the policy in RFC 2026 section 6.5.1. Strahm view that he can act 
	 on his own terms is contrary to the clear obligation to serve the 
	 public trust. This episode demonstrates that there is no regard for 
	 serving the public trust. Recall the Black's Law Dictionary definitions: 
	
	
	
	Charitable Trust
	 :
	 One in which property held by a trustee must be used for charitable 
	 purposes (advancement of health, religion, etc.). **Fiduciary 
	 relationship** with respect to property arising as a result 
	 of a manifestation of an intention to create it, and subjecting 
	 the person by whom the property is held to **equitable duties** to deal with the property for a **charitable purpose**.
	Fiduciary duty
	A **duty to act for someone else's benefit**, while **subordinating one's personal interests** to that 
	 of the other person. It is the highest standard of duty implied 
	 by law (e.g. trustee, guardian).
	
	 Compare with Strahm's claim:
	 
	>  As a working group chair - I would refuse an e-mail account 
	>  that I am not allowed to spam control **on my own terms**. 
	
	
	Strahm doesn't seem to think he has to act in anyone elses interests. 
	 Technically, the ISOC Trustee's have this duty, but to perform, they 
	 have to institute and enforce policies consistent with the ISOC corporate 
	 charter. They have a duty to make sure IETF officials comply with these 
	 policies.
	  We see from RFC 2026 section 6.5.1 that WG chairs have to receive 
	 email. The email address on the WG page is there for a reason. The 
	 'spam filtering' is a red-herring. Spam to personal addresses would 
	 not be any worse than it is for the email lists that the IETF already 
	 runs. The IETF email lists and other WG Chairs have no serious problems. 
	 Austein's SORBS blocking isn't a legitimate anti-spam activity, as 
	 evidenced by the lack of integrity of that site and its contributors. 
	 "Spam Control" is merely a code phrase that means they will 
	 only deal with the people they want for their own interests. Strahm, 
	 Austein, Kessens et al don't acknowledge that they have any duties 
	 whatsoever to deal with the property of the ISOC (that is, the drafts 
	 produced by the IETF Working Groups which are copyright ISOC) for 
	 any purpose other than their own terms or interests, and say just 
	 that.
	
	
	 The ISOC trustees have a fiduciary duty to make sure that these policies 
	 are followed.
	2. IETF Harassment? Stephen Sprunk untrustworthy? Kessens in charge of 
	 DNSEXT?
	 
	> IETF management is accused of harassment 
	>  and it is stated that Stephen Sprunk is untrustworthy (end of message). 
	>  In addition, the message implies that David Kessens is the responsible 
	>  Area Director for dnsext, while this working group is part of the 
	>  INT area:
	>   <http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg37931.html>
	> 
	> 
	> 
	
	
		1. IETF Harassment
		 The allegation of harassment by the IETF management has been 
		 substantiated in previous sections of this document.
		2. Stephen Sprunk
		  Sprunk writes: 
		
		
		
		> 
		> It appears that Dean is alleging that DNSSEC will cause queries 
		>  to the roots to be fragmented or to be transmitted over TCP, 
		>  thus invalidating the exception which allows root server operators 
		>  to use anycast. While I admit to not having followed the DNSOP 
		>  list, I've seen no substantiated claims so far that indicate 
		>  DNSSEC will cause queries to exceed the minimum MTUs for IPv4 
		>  and/or for IPv6 [2].
		> 
		> 
		>  [...]
		>  [2] I have seen misguided operators set **MTUs below 
		>  200 bytes**, but **my position is** that 
		>  these people deserve what they get in such cases. **We 
		>  cannot cater to deliberately broken implementations.**
		> 
		> 
		> 
		
		
		 Anderson write back:
		 
		> 
		> Your opinion of "deliberately broken" may not be shared by 
		>  everyone. This is why we have standards that set things like 
		>  minimum MTU. But your attitude and disregard for standards reveals 
		>  a lot.
		> 
		> 
		> Fortunately, we realized long ago that people like Stephen 
		>  Sprunk couldn't be trusted to run root DNS servers however they 
		>  thought right, to the detriment of those they thought "broken". 
		>  So we've had standards (RFC2870) for operation of root DNS servers. 
		>  This may be the only IETF RFC that someone actually MUST comply 
		>  with, and can't ignore if they please.
		> 
		> 
		> 
		
		
		 Anderson's message seems perfectly straightforward. But lets analyze 
		 it in more detail: Sprunk says that MTU's below 200 are misguided, and that its his 
		 position that "we can't cater to deliberately broken implementations". 
		 Sprunk says this in the context of DNS Root Server Operators behavior. 
		 So, are MTUs below 200 "deliberately broken"?
		  RFC791 states on page 25: 
		
		
		
		>  Every internet module must be able to forward a datagram 
		>  of 68 octets without further fragmentation. This is because an 
		>  internet header may be up to 60 octets, and the minimum fragment 
		>  is 8 octets. 
		
		
		 The answer is no: they are not "deliberately broken". 
		 Such MTUs are perfectly valid, if you intend to conform to RFC791, 
		 which is presently the standard definition of IPV4. How does this 
		 relate to DNS Root Server operators?
		 Root Server Operators have an obligation to provide services 
		 to everyone: RFC 2870 Section 2.2 says 
		
		
		
		>  2.2 Each server **MUST run software which correctly 
		>  implements the IETF standards for the DNS,** currently 
		>  [RFC1035] [RFC2181]. While there are no formal test suites for 
		>  standards compliance, the maintainers of software used on root 
		>  servers are expected to take all reasonable actions to **conform 
		>  to the IETF's then current documented expectations**. 
		
		
		 Ordinary people can ignore RFC's if they want to. But Root Server 
		 Operators can't. They signed an agreement that says they will comply 
		 with RFC 2870, and that the IETF will oversee the technical requirements.
		 
		>  2.6 **Root servers MUST answer queries from any 
		>  internet host**, i.e. may not block root name resolution 
		>  from any valid IP address, except in the case of queries causing 
		>  operational problems, in which case the blocking SHOULD last only 
		>  as long as the problem, and be as specific as reasonably possible. 
		
		
		 So DNS Root Server operators cannot take the opinion Sprunk has 
		 that 68 byte MTUs are "deliberately broken". Nor can they 
		 capricously decide on their own opinion that something that complies 
		 with IETF standards "deliberately broken". But Sprunk 
		 fails to appreciate this fact. Therefore, he is unsuitable as a 
		 root server operator because it is likely that he might take rash 
		 action on issues that are in his opinion "deliberately broken", 
		 but in fact are standardized behavior. This makes Sprunk untrustworthy 
		 to be a root server operator.
		 [It is not Anderson's position that 68 byte MTUs (which are rare) 
		 cause the Anycast problems.Any size fragment requires reassemblly 
		 state similar to TCP. If one fragment is delivered to a different 
		 server, the request is lost, and reassembly resources consumed 
		 on the server, affecting performance. . DNSSEC also causes servers 
		 to send larger packets, which might be subject to PMTU Discovery.]
		3. Kessens and DNSEXT
		 Anderson wrote:
		
		
		
		> Back to controversies: Just recently, the DNSEXT chairs 
		>  also tried to violate the patent policy of the IETF by suppressing 
		>  discussion, and failing to obtain disclosure statements. This 
		>  is another valid complaint, which is also under the supervision 
		>  of David Kessens. Plainly, the DNSEXT WG Chair doesn't really 
		>  appreciate my contribution to adhering to IETF policy. Kessens' 
		>  has so far ignored the complaint, except to try to prevent me 
		>  from posting, on a frivolous claim.
		
		
		 True: Kessens isn't in charge of DNSEXT. Anderson made a mistake.Mark 
		 Townsley and Margaret Wasserman are the Area Directors in charge 
		 of DNSEXT WG. Unlike many others, Anderson admits and corrects mistakes. 
		 Of course, as an IESG member, Kessens has an inherent obligation 
		 to see that IETF policies are adhered and applied. Kessens at minimum, 
		 still failed his obligations to ensure that IETF policies were followed.


Conclusion
----------


The ISOC has serious problems with its IETF Activity. Serious questions are 
 raised regarding the professional integrity and conduct of several IETF officials 
 as well as the integrity of IETF Drafts. The IETF, IAB, and ISOC need to take 
 steps to find out how this happened and take corrective action so as to preserve 
 the reputations of others who are involved in the IETF. The first step is to 
 annul the IESG action against Dean Anderson.


References
----------


IESG Minutes September 29, 2005 found at <http://www.ietf.org/IESG/Narrative/IESG_9_29_2005bis.txt>


PR Action found at <http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg38293.html> 


IESG Minutes found at <http://www.ietf.org/IESG/Narrative/IESG-Narrative-2006-01-05.htm>


IESG Evaluation found at <http://www1.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf-announce/current/msg01967.html>


RFC 3683, "A Practice for Revoking Posting Rights to IETF Mailing Lists" 
 March 2004 <http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3683.txt?number=3683>


RFC 2418, "IETF Working Group Guidelines and Procedures", September 
 1998 <http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2418.txt?number=2418>


RFC 3005 "IETF Discussion List Charter", November 2000 <http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3005.txt?number=3005>


RFC 2026 "The Internet Standards Process -- Revision 3", October 
 1996 <http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2026.txt?number=2026> 


RFC 3184 "IETF Guidelines for Conduct", October 2001 <http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3184.txt?number=3184>


RFC 3934 "Updates to RFC 2418 Regarding the Management of IETF Mailing 
 Lists" <http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3934.txt?number=3934>


Internet Society (ISOC) Articles of Incorporation <http://www.isoc.org/isoc/general/trustees/incorp.shtml>  

  

 Internet Society Bylaws <http://www.isoc.org/isoc/general/trustees/bylaws.shtml>


Internet Society Conflict of Interest Statement <http://www.isoc.org/isoc/general/trustees/conflictofinterest.shtml>


 